[[!meta  title="20050412-1707"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-04-12 22:07:00"]]
<p> I went to the one man play on the ideas of G.K. Chesterton that
Catholic Campus Ministry sponsored at the Johnson Center Cinema.
It was a lot of fun.  It reminded me of many good points, and
[re]introduced me to a few that I had either forgotten or have
not read as yet.  He wrote long ago, it seems to me, though not
so long in terms of the long sweep of human history, and yet his
points are as pertinent today as they were then.  I did not stay
to try to pick the brains of the students, few of which I know
even by face or name any more, and none of whom would know how
to respond to me.  I do however wonder what they made of it, they
were presented with a view far from the common one you see today.
He did not at all try to soften the views of Mr. Chesterton, but
presented a wide range of Mr. Chesterton's most controversial views.
He looked at politics where Mr. Chesterton comes down hard against
humanists, universalists, socialists and communists.  He looked at
the differences between the sexes, men and women are intrinsically
different.  Mr. Chesterton went somewhat farther than I would dare
to do today.  He came down against having given women the vote.
His logic is that in doing so, we have removed one unintended check
on government, it is now taken seriously by all, whereas before,
our wives and sisters might well have scoffed at us men for taking it
so seriously.  I do not know, I think that at this point we could not
justly go back, even <em>if</em> he is right that we would be better
off had women not been given the vote.  He takes on contraception,
tolerance, and evolution.  Always with common sense arguments that
I fear people would be far too quick to dismiss today, for all
no one has refuted them.  He takes on women working.  He clearly
points out much of the illogic of the early feminist arguments.
That it is utterly ironic and illogical to say that motherhood is
a small job, or a meaningless one, but that teaching is a larger.
That it is ironic that one would refuse to be dictated to, yet
take a job as a secretary or stenographer, or in a typing pool.
Some of his arguments here have lost their weight: typing pools
are largely if not entirely a thing of the past, and women are in
far more fields and career paths than they were in his day.  Still,
as I look around me at this world, I cannot help but wonder, what
has been the cost of the working mom?  Greater than those who go to
work would ever dare admit.  It is a question that has no answer,
because for a guy like me to ask it is to be accused of being sexist
and dismissed, and no working woman would, for she would have to
question her own motives.  Does she go to work because its best for
family and society, or because she wants to?  And he points out the
freedom and joy that come from following the Catholic precepts.
Surprising joy, paradoxical joy, but more real than any other.
Joy that he is not alone in finding, Scott Hahn and other protestant
converts find the same.  Joy that takes the previous controversies
and stands them on their heads, for the argument is that we should
all do what makes us happy, but this shows that we do not always
know what will best achieve that end.</p>

[[!tag  uncategorized]]