---

title: 20050211-1057
date: 2005-02-11 15:57:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

"<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2005/02/10/business/10auto.html?ex=1265864400&en=31fc593620f00192&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt">Test
Set on Transmission That Could Save Fuel</a>" (NYTimes, registration
nonsense) is an example of the kind of environmental action you like
to see.  Coming up with solutions that are better for the environment
while still being economically sound.  Why can't this sort of
thing happen more often?  I think it relates to George Weigel's "<a href="http://www.archden.org/dcr/news.php?e=116&s=3&a=2678">Creation
groans</a>."  Across the world, people are increasingly confused
about Satan.  Several news articles in the last 6 months have
documented a rise in satanism, and it is common knowledge that
increasing numbers of other people no longer believe in Satan as a
real, discrete, intelligent, living being.  Both are problematic in
their own way.  This leads us to claim God responsible for things
that He did not will, but which are instead the results of rebellion
against Him.  Along the same lines, from Romanticism on, and now
especially in environmentalism, there is this unsound notion that
creation, minus man and his influence, is perfect.  Utter rubbish,
but many people believe it.  Thus much of environmentalism is far
too extreme to be really practicable, and some of it too extreme to
be even desirable.  You can see this in Rachael Carson's <em>Silent
Spring</em>, where she mixes sound advice with utter rubbish, and
has no problems advocating things that put people at greater risk.
For instance, she advocates allowing shrubbery to grow up along the
sides of roads when all the research done indicates that fatalities
in accidents <strong>drop</strong> when the roadsides are clear of
ditches, trees, shrubs, so on, essentially the 2 or 3 car lengths
of short cut grassy filed, possibly with near zero resistance wild
flower, that the Department of Transportation has advocated for
Highways for years.

