---

title: 20050211-1421
date: 2005-02-11 19:21:00
layout: rut
---

"<a href="http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2005/02/0209_050209_octopus.html">Octopus
Arms May Point Way to New Robot Designs</a>" talks about
using octopus arms as a model for robot arms.  It also has
some peripherally related tidbits of interesting information.
Of particular note, I noted an indication of the design in life on
learning that octopi use their arms almost as if they had bones
after they have caught their prey.  This isn't proof of design,
is not meant to be, after all, it might turn out that is the ideal
way to handle the situation, scientists looking at it as a model
appear to be betting on that.  If on the other hand there are two
or more roughly equivalent ways to handle boneless arms, what makes
this one the one of choice?  Evolution would certainly not cause a
critter to *loose* its bones, and so I assume that scientists would
put octopi rather earlier on the branching than the development
of bones.  Thus this would have to be an example of "convergent
evolution," a case in which design makes a far better explanation:
the designer favored certain patterns.<br  /><br  />

If that isn't speculative enough for you, I'd like to consider
something else.  We have computer-organic hybrids (mentioned
<a href="./view.php?date=20050207-1623">here</a>), and we have
robots potentially mimicking emotions and reproducing (mentioned
<a href="./view.php?date=20050204-1128">here</a>).  Combine the
two, and how do you tell the difference between the artificial and
the real?  In a rather humorous twist, I can only imagine creating
something, loosing a few of it in the ocean, and then some scientist
a hundred years from now "discovering" it and speculating about how
it evolved.  Of course it will be utterly ridiculous to say that this
"new species" was created. ;-)

