[[!meta  title="20050128-1506"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-01-28 19:06:00"]]
<strong>news</strong><br  />

Lest you thought otherwise, the end of the two cases
in Florida do not signal the end of th attacks on
marriage.  Findlaw reports on some of the continuing battles <a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/1-27-2005/20050127010003_06.html">here</a>.
What a messed up world we live in when we have to worry about "sex
change operations" and their effect on the validity of a marriage.
Some states apparently refuse to recognize such an operation has
having changed your gender.  Good for them.<br  /><br  />

Some scientists have made some progress understanding
the Venus fly trap.  Interesting read, details are <a href="http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2005/01/27/researchers_explore_mystery_and_say_gotcha/">here</a>.<br  /><br  />

<hr  />

Slow day today.  Created an external raid, and re-looking at torque
and moab.  I dislike them for the most part, they seem like more
trouble than they are worth.  The idea is worthy enough, you have
this big expensive cluster, make sure one person does not abuse it,
and that everyone gets a fair shot at having their jobs get the
resources needed.  But the programs themselves are a pain to set
up and try to understand.  Looks like I'll be visiting a client
again on Tuesday, and among other things, setting torque and moab
at least partially up.  I wish I could get support for oscar here,
the scripts they provide would handle at least some of this for me.
I also am not too thrilled about visiting customers.  They always
ask questions I don't have answers for.<br  /><br  />

Read Ederlyn's post about a chocolaty Starbucks&reg;, it reminded
me of one of the (few) good points that one of William's biology
professors made: why do we eat? We eat to obtain energy.  Does it
really matter what we eat then, so long as it isn't poisonous in some
way? Not really. What's far more important is that you exercise at
a level appropriate to your intake.  But attempts to explain that,
especially in the caustic way that I'm most suited to, do not seem
to get through or make an impression on people.<br  /><br  />

[[!tag  uncategorized]]