---

title: 20050504-1453
date: 2005-05-04 19:53:00
layout: rut
---

<p> Rich Lowry <a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/richlowry/rl20050502.shtml">criticizes"</a>
pretty much every aspect of President Bush's unpassed energy,
but I do not entirely agree.  Sure, when the gas companies aren't
too thrilled with the idea of drilling somewhere, it makes little
sense for President Bush to be pushing it.  Along the same lines,
perhaps new refineries would not help the recent skyrocketing of
gas prices.  It is hard to say, I would tend to think that they are
likely making a killing off of the higher prices, and are reluctant
to have any reason to lower prices again.  It could, however be
true that upgrades make more sense than new refineries, so I will
give Mr. Lowry the benefit of the doubt on that one also.</p>

<p>He then continues to lump all requests for federal funding to
aid in development of new fuel technologies as likely dead ends.
His logic?  If they were not dead ends, they would not need funding.
Surely the flaw in that thinking is self evident.  They want
federal funding <em>because it is available</em>.  Not because
they need it, the research will happen, is happening, regardless
of how much the federal government funds it.  Because much of it
<em>is</em> bearing fruit, over time.  Hybrid and electric cars
used to be a joke.  They were a toy for the rich tree-hugger,
never expected to take off.  They were horrid, they did not do as
well as combustion engines for city driving, they did not have
the battery life for highway driving, and they did not have the
torque to handle any serious incline.  A few years later, they have
worked out many of the bugs in the design, dropped (for now only
I expect) the idea of a pure electric car, dropped the (again,
perhaps only for now) the ineffective and ugly solar panels, and
produced a hybrid car that is not only popular, but (relatively)
affordable, and quite usable.  This is something that was funded
by the government.  Did it need to be? Absolutely not.  Should it
have been? No, it really should not have been federally funded.
But it was, because the funds were available for the asking, not
because the research was a dead end.</p>

<p>Do people ask for federal funding for dead end research? I am
quite sure they do.  Quite a bit of corporate research is "lost
effort" as well.  And perhaps the bureaucratic oversight instead of
cost-driven oversight means that a greater percentage of federal
research goes down the drain.  But the correct lesson to learn from
that is not that all requests for federal research are for bogus
ideas, but that federal subsidies are simply not an effective way
at stimulating effective research.  The one exception rather proves
the rule.  The National Institutes of Health churns out quite a bit.
Even though it likely does not compare to John Hopkins, or some of
the other research schools, it does good work.  It does so however,
because the scientists by and large cannot stay.  They are all on
temporary grants, having to justify their existence in some cases,
and unrenewable grants in other cases.  So every one of them
has a motive to self-police so that they can get a job at a real
institution three to five years down the line.</p>

