---

title: 20050512-1101
date: 2005-05-12 16:01:00
layout: rut
---

<p>In New York, a woman was advised, and attempted, a "chemical
abortion."[1] They apparently injected something that should
have killed the baby.  Instead, it left the baby alive, but with
severe physical and mental deformities.  The mother tried to sue
on her own behalf, claiming emotional injury.  I understand why an
"emotional injury" tort (is that the right word, I think it is)
exists, because sometimes people do things that they should be held
accountable for even when no physical injury exists, or beyond
what the physical injury costs.  But I think that its existence
only feeds the tendency to sue far too much.</p>

<p>Returning to more important matters here, clearly the doctors are
not liable for the deformities of the baby.  They may be liable that
the abortion failed (ironically enough), and they <em>should</em>
be <em>criminally</em> liable for recommending one (though they
are not).  But clearly the deformities are the woman's own fault
for choosing to attempt to kill her child.</p>

<p>This also clearly shows the power of life.  This baby survived
despite the attempted abortion, and despite the mother's fibroid
tumors, which her doctors thought would cause her to loose the baby.
Once they would have told her what could be done to improve her
chances.  Once they would have fought by her side to help save the
baby's life.  Now they recommend an abortion.  Sad.</p>

[1] http://www.law.com/jsp/article.jsp?id=1115802312256

