---

title: "20050512-1123"
date: 2005-05-12 16:23:00
layout: rut
---

<p>Lately I have taken to glancing at the articles on Focus On The
Family's Boundless website.[1] Even though aimed at college kids,
and protestant in tone, some of its articles remain thought provoking
and pertinent.  This week they have posted an article talking about
the "two income trap."  More and more, you see both parents working.
This has been noticeable in a variety of ways, for example, schools
are now more likely to close than to risk needing to close early.
For some reason an employer is more willing to accept that you
cannot come in at all than that you must leave unexpectedly early.
Similarly, the number of two hour delays have gone down.  This last
winter highlighted the ridiculousness of this when schools were
closed several days that they need not have been.</p>

<p>Returning to topic, another way in which the two income trap
shows up is that couples often find that they "cannot" do without
both incomes.  Far from one of them being "extra," they come to find
that loosing either would constitute an emergency.  This article[2]
talks about that.  It sketches, in reference to a full book on the
topic, how couples come to depend on that second income.  They buy
a more expensive house, in a school district that everyone wants
to be in (more competition means higher prices).  They buy more
expensive cars (cars with televisions in them&#x203d;).  They pay
for day care, they eat out more.  Perhaps, like my aunt and uncle,
neither knows how to cook much or well.  They thus introduce expenses
they would not have with a single income, and then cannot afford
to loose either.</p>

<p>My parents avoided this differently.  By refusing to take a job
outside the home, working only with day care, my parents choose
less costly vacations, less fashionable clothes (not that we kids
particularly noticed or cared).  We still go out less than many
(most?) people I know, and go out more simply, so that I know
rather less about the area restaurants than many of my friends.
We had a garden, and my dad worked other jobs.  We got by, with
Catholic schooling, even in this super-expensive area.  So I tend
to look questioningly at people who think they need two incomes,
and the boundless article comes to a similar conclusion.</p>

[1] http://www.boundless.org/ <br  />
[2] http://www.boundless.org/2005/articles/a0001084.cfm

