---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-02-07 15:46:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
I had a very full weekend, and so I was not at my computer much.
WCACs was Saturday, consuming my day from early (for a Saturday)
until fairly late (I got home around 8:30-9pm).  It was a well
spent day, though PVI did not do as well as they could have.
Many of our guys didn't seem to have their heads in the matches,
and our performance reflected that.  Still, we had four guys
in finals, and several more took third.  Unfortunately our heavy
weight was injured in his final match, I have not heard officially,
hopefully they were mistake, but the trainers think he broke his
collar bone, which would put him out for St. Alban's and states.
I have to feel sorry for both him and the team.  Michael did well,
but not great.  He lost his first match, in which he could have done
better, won his second match decisively, and then lost his third.
He lost to the wrestlers who took first and third respectively,
but my impression, having wrestled myself, having watched my team,
William and his team, and now Michael and his team, is that Michael
could have won at least one of those, especially that match against
Good Council (the first one). <br  /><br  />

Sunday I went to St. Veronica's 10:15am mass.  I must say that it
is nice being able to leave at approximately 10:05 and get their at
10:13, though I am aware that this is not something to depend on
(I didn't hit a red light at the Fairfax County Parkway), and I
would of course like to get there earlier most of the time anyway.
It is also nice to have an instructive homily.  Many times you
are confronted with the seeming dichotomy between sequestering
your faith from the sight of others and being "Holier than thou"
(as my Mom would say), the kind of person who no one much likes who
may or may not live their faith well, but who, regardless, tries to
push their faith in your face.  It is an easy trap to fall into,
on either side.  Addressing the side that is, I think, more of a
danger for me, we are called to be missionaries, to work for the
conversion of others, we <strong>must</strong> be demonstrative in
our faith, people around us <strong>must</strong> know that we are
Catholic, and our lives <strong><em>must</em></strong> be such that
they will be drawn towards that faith.  Fr. Pollard (spelling?) gave
some advice on threading that needle.  We must do what is required
for our own welfare, praying before meals, even in restaurants,
and even when around people who wouldn't.  We need not pray aloud.
We must provide for the needs of those dependent on us, parents must
share their experience with God enough to provide a concrete example
for their children not just of ritual and tradition, but of life and
the meaning of faith in it.  Beyond that, we must attempt to gage
the effects.  What will be more effective at drawing people to God,
will the overt display put them off, if so hold back, or will it
cause them to question, to speak, if so let them see.<br  /><br  />

Later Sunday I went to Chris and John's Super Bowl Party.  I haven't
ever done this before, I haven't even <em>watched</em> football in
ages, almost certainly not since my father died.  I do not know
that I would go again.  I was strongly reminded of why I dislike
football.  It is such a pointless game at a professional level.
And seems so silly to me as a wrestler anyway.  I know that there
are, must be people, who feel the same way about wrestling, but
emotions are nothing if not subjective.  I am reminded of the times
football players have attended their first wrestling practice.
None of them has found themselves prepared by the fall season of
football for the rigors of wrestling, even though a football game
is <em>much</em> longer than a wrestling match.  And the difference
in practice is not in vain, the wrestling match, I have been told,
even by a good football player, requires more in 6 minutes than the
football game does.  Regardless, football strikes me as a bunch
of "dumb jocks" (intentionally invoking the stereotype) slamming
into each other with occasional displays of skill (some running
and catching, some throwing contain skill).  The displays that the
players create only serve to reinforce this position.  The dancing
after a touch down or a good play especially seems out of place,
excessive, crass.  Wrestling is not entirely immune from this,
after a pin, you will often see arms raised in victory, a bellow as
emotion is released.  It is to some extent inherent in competitive
personalities, and so I think it is the excess and silliness
of the football display that disgusts, not its presence alone.
Let us not forget, also, that the wrestling match begins and ends
with a hand shake, wrestlers are required to walk onto and off of
the mat as gentlemen, and few football players appear to attempt
to be gentlemen.  It is interesting as a side note that we respect
less the DeMatha wrestlers, who do not meet our (PVI's) standards,
as compared to other schools we wrestle, even though DeMatha is
unquestionably one of the very best, and consistently one of the
very best, schools we wrestle.

