---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-05-19 14:57:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p>Interesting that the military understands the implications of our
push for gender equality.[1] I am not saying that women should not
have a choice of careers beyond the home, nor that they should be
denied access to medical school or law school the way they once
where when the feminists were truly feminists.  I <em>am</em>
saying that some jobs are not appropriate for a woman to have,
and that other jobs are only truly appropriate to those few women
who have the ability to do the same physical work as a guy holding
that job would be expected to do.</p>

<p>The military's combat roles, both as a soldier in combat, but
also as a support/supply person exposed to combat, is one place
women simply do not belong.  Once we knew that.  For centuries men
understood their call to be gentlemen, and to protect the women
around them.  Because women and men <em>are</em> different.</p>

<p>Now however, we have lost that.  We have women, in Iraq and
Afghanistan, ending up <em>in</em> combat even though they are still,
for now, banned from combat units.  The Pentagon looks at this,
and looks at the recruitment figures, and looks at the deployment
needs, and is responding with a push to put women in combat roles,
to further blur the distinction between the sexes.  <em>Congress</em>
is thus left as the break, attempting to preserve the ban as it
was intended, to keep women out of harms way while allowing them
to serve in areas not so utterly incompatible with a proper view
of their place in a civilized society.  I am sure that no mention
is needed of the irony here, and thus the potential for further
societal decay.</p>

[1] http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/4560847.stm

