---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-03-15 19:33:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p> So I've been mostly silent here since Thursday last week.
My weekend was spent largely away from the computer, as is often
the case, lost in my own thoughts and reading.  I read all of
Terry Goodkind's <em>Chainfire</em> and most of <em>The Phantom
of the Opera</em> (yes, the real book, not a novelization of the
opera or movie).  I also went to see PVI's production of "Bye,
Bye Birdie" with the family and Lauren.  It was very well done,
very enjoyable.  <em>Chainfire</em> was somewhat dissatisfying.
While it did somewhat depart from his earlier habit of lecturing
instead of advancing the story, it did not completely do so (which
I suppose would be too much to ask, but would be nice considering
the first couple books of the series).  My real gripe however is
the incomplete way in which it ended.  It is very anti-climactic.
Rather than a resolution, it merely achieves a recognition of
the problem it presents and introduces.  Hopefully the next in
the series will be better.  <em>The Phantom of the Opera</em>
is more &#x2026; complete than the movie or opera is.  Naturally,
or at least "naturally" in the sense that Hollywood always does so,
Andrew Loyd Weber saw fit, in creating first his opera and then his
movie, to edit and redact the novel, simplifying the plot line.
One thing that does improve with the movie is a more successful
portrayal of the author's attempt to act as a historian rather
than a novelist.  In the movie especially you get the sense of a
flashback to real events, real history, real mystery, in the book,
it is not carried off anywhere near so well.  He refers to letters
and interviews as the source of his story, but knows too much of
the characters' motivations, emotions, and thoughts for that to
be an accurate explanation.  He references Christine's letters,
some police reports, interviews with some of the other characters,
yet in places he knows of things that the vicomte alone should have
known, the one person he does <em>not</em> list as a reference.
Still, it is a very good read, and I do not regret purchasing it.
Far from it, for, as I said, that flaw aside, it is in may ways a
more complete, well rounded story than the movie presents, and thus,
in its way, more satisfying.</p>

<p>So much for my reading.  An equally large reason for my absence
from this one-voiced forum is the perplexing nfs problem I've
been hitting.  From all I understand, <code>/etc/exports</code>
<em>should</em> be able to handle both notation in the form of
192.168.50.0/24 and 192.168.50/255.255.255.0.  However, after 2
days of blaming the kernel or the bproc configuration, we have,
more or less accidentally, discovered that only the former works.
Complicating the issue, both 192.168.50.0/255.255.255.0 and
192.168.50.* notations will work <em>in some situations, most
notably where a reverse look-up </em><strong><em>fails</em></strong>.
It is the times where things <strong><em>work</em></strong> that it
is <strong><em>more strict</em></strong>.  This seems incredibly
counter-intuitive to me, and was the cause of the delay in my
discovering the true cause of the problem.  You see, the host in
question was serving nfs mounts on two interfaces, and the other
interface, denoted with the same /255.255.255.0 type notation,
<em>was working</em>.  So naturally I did not think to suspect
the identical (except for the specific IP range of the network)
notation for the other network.  Still, at least the problem was
discovered and is now fixed.</p>

