---

title: Are monopolies always evil?
date: 2005-08-04 21:50:33
tags:
  -  politics-law
layout: rut
---

<p>I find myself disagreeing with Ars Technica on a very similar matter to one of my <a href="20050325-2059/20050325-2059">previous disagreements</a>. Today, Ars is all upset that the Federal Communications Commission is considering changing the classification of DSL from a "telecommunications service" to being an "information service."<a href="http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20050804-5168.html">[1]</a> Ars, or at least Mr. Bangeman, disbelieves claims that the requirement that they lease lines out has discouraged phone companies from upgrading their infrastructure.  He might even be right, I do not know.  I do think it some what significant that Joe, even as a very junior person at Verizon, thinks that this claim might well be true.  Joe's a very bright guy, and I do not think he would blindly accept such a claim.  Returning to matters of fact though, it IS clear and undeniable that <em>residential customers</em> got a poor deal when MCI successfully used anti-trust law to break up AT&amp;T.  Residential phone service went up in price, and down in quality.  Really, the only people who benefited from the breakup were those who wished to compete with AT&amp;T.  Interestingly enough, as things have been de-regulated, customer service has largely improved.  Previously, I gave the rise of FedEx and UPS as an example.<a href="20050325-2059/20050325-2059">[2]</a> I do not know if AT&amp;T would again be a benevolent monopoly or not.  I do not know if the local phone companies will be benevolent in their monopolies on DSL or not.  If I had to guess, I would say some will and some will not.  But to be blindly afraid of a monopoly, simply because a monopoly <em>can</em> be abused, but only <em>has</em> been abused in <em>some</em> of the cases available to us, does not a good argument make.  I would like to see on what basis he would assert that the phone companies will <em>necessarily</em> all give bad service after this (effective) grant.</p>  <font size="-2"> [1] Bangeman, Eric.  "FCC likely to deregulate DSL" Ars Technica 2005-08-04. http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20050804-5168.html <br  /> [2] Schierer, Luke. "Public-Private partnerships" Random Unfinished Thoughts. 2005-03-25. http://www.schierer.org/~luke/log/20050325-2059/20050325-2059 </font>

