[[!meta  title="Exorcisms"]]
[[!meta  date="2006-07-09 14:28:06"]]
The following comes primarily from Fr. Gabriele Amorth's <i>An Exorcist: More Stories</i><sup>[1]</sup> though a few Catholic Encyclopedia articles might technically be the origin of some fact or two.  It comes as a result of needing to research the topic for the summer education at St. Veronica's, where the teens are to watch "The Exorcism of Emily Rose" this evening.

<ol>
<li> Ghosts and/or poltergeists exit:  FALSE.
	These are believed to be the "spirit" or soul of a dead person
	who has somehow not gone on to heaven, hell, or purgatory.  This
	does not in fact ever happen.  All souls go to one of these three
	destinations.</li>
<li> Demons or devils exist:  TRUE.
	Demons or devils are fallen angels, Satan and those who followed
	him in rebellion against God.  The Catholic Encyclopedia writes
		<blockquote>According to Catholic belief demons or fallen angels
		retain their natural power, as intelligent beings, of
	 	acting on the material universe, and using material
 		objects and directing material forces for their own wicked
		ends; and this power, which is in itself limited, and is
		subject, of course, to the control of Divine providence,
		is believed to have been allowed a wider scope for its
		activity in the consequence of the sin of mankind. Hence
		places and things as well as persons are naturally liable
		to diabolical infestation, within limits permitted by God</blockquote></li>

<li> Demons can only possess the sinful: FALSE.
	The bible lists at least one instance of a child having been
	possessed from birth, thus we know that no action on the part of
	the person is necessary.  Conversely, the need for exorcism
	persists through the Acts of the Apostles, and in the writings 
	of the early Church.  Exorcists still act under the direction of
	the bishops today, and those they aid include both Catholics and
	non-Catholics, both those with strong prayer lives and those with-
	out.</li>
<li> Possession is really just mental disease: FALSE.
	While there have, historically, been mistakes in diagnosis, times
	when mental disease was wrongly taken to be the result of demonic
	influence or possession, it is not the case that demonic possession
	is always the result of mental disease.  Just so, there have times
	when people have been wrongly convicted of murder, we do not dis-
	regard the possibility of murder.  

	Further, even in the Bible, we see a distinction made between
	possession and mental disease.  For example, Matthew 4:24 reads
		<blockquote>His fame spread to all of Syria, and they brought to him
		all who were sick with various diseases and racked with
		pain, those who were possessed, lunatics, and paralytics,
		and he cured them.</blockquote> 
	Here we see a distinction made between the insane, the paralyzed,
	and the possessed.  Yet possession, in other parts of the Gospels,
	is linked with symptoms that could be caused by mental illness
	or paralysis.  If possession were not a separate phenomena, Matthew
	would have had no need in 4:24 to make the distinction.  This is not to say that there has never been a misdiagnosis in either direction.  There has, but that does not negate the reality of both.</li> 
<li> Exorcisms always work: FALSE.
	Matthew chapter 17 contains a story of a boy whom the Disciples
	could not exercise.  Jesus, after driving the demon out, tells the
	disciples that their failure resulted from a lack of faith.  Else
	where, Jesus says that some demons can only be exorcised by prayer
	and fasting.  For this reason, the bishops should exercise care in
	choosing exorcists, to pick priests with a strong faith, and who
	live holy lives.  Even then, exorcists have related that it
	sometimes takes years for complete healing.</li>
</ol>
Some further notes gleaned:

Ordinary activity is essentially temptation, to which we are all subject, and is not covered by him.

He breaks extraordinary activity down into 6 categories:
1)External Pain
	caused either directly or indirectly (as by the demon causing an object to fall would be a source of indirect pain)
2)possession
	continuing presence of a demon in the person.  typically alternating between periods of rest and activity (by the demon) and involves the
	suspension of "mental, intellectual, affective and volatile functions."   It can include the knowledge of languages the person would not
	normally know, superhuman strength, superhuman knowledge, and/or the ability to read thoughts.  A strong temptation to suicide is often
	present as well.
3)oppression
	random discomfort, often appearing very similar to severe depression, with inexplicable rages, and a strong tendency to isolation and a
	strong temptation to suicide.
4)obsession
	almost a split personality.  the will remains free, but thoughts, often very illogical ones, persist in the mind, and cannot be dispelled by the
	person.  there is often a strong temptation to suicide.
5)infestation
	demonic activity directed at places (houses, offices, stores, fields), objects (cars, pillows, mattresses, dolls), or animals.
6)subjugation
	a voluntary pact with a demon, either implicit or explicit.  Otherwise similar to one of the first 4.

he lists 4 categories of ways in which one of these comes about:
1)Pure divine permission
	the person has done nothing, is in fact growing in virtue.   God grants permission much as happens with Job in the bible.
2)subjection to a curse
	one person requests a demon to harm another.
3)grave hardening in sin
	such as Judas Iscariot, the person who has abandoned themselves to sin of any sort is at greater risk of demonic harm.  He also lists
	abortion here.
4)proximity to evil
	associating with satanic cults, with magicians or fortune tellers, dabbling with magic or witch doctors.  He also includes the effects of pornography, some rock (and especially rap) music, some horror movies, and other, similar parts of popular culture.

<font size="-2"><ol><font size="-2">
<li><font size="-2">ISBN 0-89870-917-2</font></li>
</font></ol></font>

[[!tag  morality-religion]]