[[!meta  title="Public Schooling"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-06-15 18:38:00"]]
Mr. Jeff Jacoby is an idealist.  He thinks that the states might
be persuaded to give up their right to indoctrinate the majority
of children for the first thirteen years of their education.[1] He
is absolutely right, the public school model is not the only model
that would ensure the education of our children.  If we privatized
the public school systems and repealed the taxes that pay for
them (primarily the property tax), we would all have enough money
to pay for their schooling.  If someone worries that this might
not be enough, we can provide further tax credits for it as well.
And of course religious schools *could* provide scholarships,
and so on.

Further, the public schools currently get several times the
amount of money per student that the Catholic schools do, and
yet no one can seriously say that the Catholic school systems do
worse at providing education.  In fact, many parents say they do a
*better* job.  This leads to an interesting line of thought:
where does all that extra money go?  Well, some of it goes to higher
salaries for teachers, the fact that you take a pay cut choosing to
work in a Catholic school is well known.  But some of it also goes
to the higher levels of bureaucracy in the public school system,
the teachers' union, so on.  All fat that could be cut from their
budget to make the schools more competitive.  This is the sort of
thing that has led to the success of so called "charter schools"
in some school districts, where a private firm gets a contract to
run a school as long as they can improve the results the school
gets on the SOLs (I might be somewhat inaccurate here defining
charter schools.  I do not know too much about them).

Another important point to remember is that universal public
schooling is a relatively recent invention.  One of the reasons
that you see the use of public funds to provide bus service to
Catholic schools in some north eastern states is because these
schools *were* the "public" school system for a long time,
until the states had the political pressure to build their own.
In the South on the other hand, you did not see this development
of schools.  The richer families home schooled, and the poorer
simply did not learn much.  As a result you had the rise of the
white cracker subculture in the south, that closely mirrors the
black culture today[2].  Going into the Civil War then, you see
that the illiteracy rate in the south was very high, much higher
than in the north, though neither had what we would understand
today as public schooling.

But the failure of the south to educate really does not argue
for the existence of public schooling.  Rather, it speaks to the
simple fact that education was widely believed to be unnecessary
in the society constructed in the south.  The sustenance farmers
certainly did not need it, and the plantations needed only a few
who could read and write.  Similarly, in the small town, one's word
was either good or not, regardless of the form an agreement took,
and everyone knew it.

On the other hand, the failure of the public school system
*to* adequately educate *is* pertinent.  Illiteracy
is still higher than it should be, especially among inner city
students.  Even where literacy exists, understanding of history,
math, and science often lags.  Critical thinking is nearly
universally unknown.  We have gone from a culture that nearly
requires a high school diploma to succeed, to one that nearly
requires a college diploma to succeed.  From men being ready to
take on responsibility at 18 and 20, to men still in some sort of
extended adolescence nearly till 30, assuming they ever grow up and
embrace responsibility.  Clearly we are failing.  It should then
be just as clear that the system does not work, and simply throwing
more money at it, to do the same thing, will not work.

Still, common sense tells us that this will not happen.
The teachers' union is one of the more effective lobbying efforts
on the left, and it would be political suicide to try to privatize
education.  Further, even were a state to try to do so, the federal
laws would likely "preempt" and require state spending on it anyway.
The political cost then, in terms of careers burned, for something
with no grassroots pressure, is prohibitively high, and this post,
like  Mr. Jacoby's column, is very nearly a waste of space.

[1]: http://www.townhall.com/columnists/jeffjacoby/jj20050613.shtml

[2]: http://www.townhall.com/columnists/monacharen/mc20050610.shtml

[[!tag society]]
[[!tag politics-law]]
