---

title: 20050204-1011
date: 2005-02-04 15:11:00
layout: rut
---

How much control over your property
should the federal government have?  In "<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/2-4-2005/20050204021502_8.html">High
Court Review of Wetland Case Sought</a>," the Supreme Court is
being asked to look at a case in which a man as been sentenced to
time in prison for filling in some wetlands he owns.  Two concerns
here, 1)does the 1972 Clean Water Act protect wet lands that are
unconnected to navigable water, and 2)should the federal government
be involved in this at all?  Conservation is all well and good,
we are called to exercise responsibility in our use of the world
and its resources, not to wantonly destroy it.  Thus many times,
conservationists are raising legitimate points along with utter
nonsense.  The trick is to figure out where the nonsense starts
(and ends), and what role the federal government can and should have
in preventing extremes on both ends from happening.  I'm tempted
to say that the federal government does have <em>some</em> say in
this, as watershed areas, rivers, and such often extend beyond
the bounds of a state, much less a local government.  Still, I
do not like to see the federal government deciding that you can't
use land you own.  If they are going to declare it unusable land,
there should be some offer to make it a park or preserve involved.
On the other hand, part of me thinks that we'll end up where the
only parks will be the unusable lands, as larger and larger areas
are pushing for development.<br  /><br  />

<strong>Update: 12:22</strong><br  /> "<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/terencejeffrey/tj20050202.shtml">The mud puddle preservation plan</a>, by Terence Jeffrey, gives another view of this same issue, that exposes just how far this can go, and how rediculous it can get.

