---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2006-07-18 14:05:22"
tags:
  - ", "politics-law
---
Once again, I find myself agreeing with Mr. Pat Buchanan.   Today, he is asking what in the world we are doing supporting Isreal.<sup><a title="WorldNetDaily: Where are the Christians?" href="http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=51116">[1]</a></sup>  In particular, he references the fact that part of Isreal's approach to the Palestinian election of Hamas for its government includes destroying power plants.   The route they seem to be taking is creating suffering amoung the Palestinian people, included in which are many innocent Christians, by denying them refrigeration, water purification, and air conditioning (in the middle of a desert).   He also notes that they have a tendency to target refugee convoys in their war with Lebanon, and that the rest of their actions in this war are questionable considering that Lebanon itself is relatively defenseless.

He is absolutely correct here, Isreal has a right to defend itself, and its neighbors would certainly love to see it wiped off the map.  But Isreal goes too far, too often.  It must recognize the difference between combatants and non-combatants.  The difference between terrorists and those who are not.  Yes, that distinction is difficult.  But you do not see the United States in Iraq going for the wholesale destruction that Isreal is choosing, even though the challenges facing them are similar.  Until Isreal is willing to make these distinctions, we should be questioning our willingness to support them.
<ol><font size="-2">
	<li><font size="-2">Mr. Pat Buchanan.  "Where are the Christians?" World Net Daily 2006-07-18.  http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=51116 </font></li>
</font></ol>

