[[!meta  title="20050131-1137"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-01-31 15:37:00"]]
Oliver North quoted an Iraqi governor who in just a couple sentences
captured the transforming power that women hold: "Women voting
will change everything. No woman who carries a child for nine
months wants that child to grow up to be a suicide terrorist. They
want the politicians to give their children something to live for,
not die for -- and we will have to do it."<font size="-1"><sup><a href="#iraq1">1</a></sup></font> Women, who safe-guard life in its
earliest moments, have the power to shape society like no other.
Beyond moments such as this quote refers to, I am reminded of the
homily I heard at St. Veronica's last week.  Guys are very simple;
we want to be in relationship with a girl.  And, for the right
girl, we'll do anything in our power, and some things we would have
thought impossible, to keep her in our lives. This gives girls an
unique chance to influence the world.  They get to set a standard
for the men in their lives, for the men they choose to date, the
man they choose to marry, the children they raise.  Men are of
course not absolved of responsibility, it is a poor man indeed who
does not exceed common expectations for morality, decency, honor in
today's society, but it is women who define what is "exceptional"
and what is "expected."  God help our girls to set high standards
once again.<br  /><br  />

1)<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/ollienorth/on20050128.shtml">North,
Oliver. "Of bombs, bullets and ballots" January 28, 2005</a>

[[!tag  uncategorized]]