---

title: "contra Utilitarianism"
date: 2021-09-13 17:59:35 -0400
tags:
  - morality-religion 
  - society
  - politics-law
  - "HP Notes"
layout: rut
---

Utilitarianism is a moral philosophy where the highest good is identified with
happiness.[^20210913-2]  More precisely, this theory states "that the aim of
action should be the largest possible balance of pleasure over pain or the
greatest happiness of the greatest number."[^20210913-3] For the godless, this
is probably a very tempting view of the world.  It fits well with human nature,
since men act for perceived goods (not always the right goods, at the right
times, or in right proportion, but always in quest of some good).  Its focus on
the group dynamics allows for altruism, and allows those who embrace it to feel
altruism.  If you have to go wrong, there are certainly worse ways. 

How do you measure happiness?  This philosophy requires that I quantify both my
pleasures and my sufferings, so that I can judge right from wrong in terms of
them.  Not only my own pleasures and sufferings, which I might quantify somewhat
subjectively, but also everyone else's pleasures and sufferings.  When we, as a
country, debate social welfare policy, is the suffering of the poor offset by the
happiness of the rich if we vote to allow unrestricted greed?  Alternately, if
we vote for socialism, even assuming we succeed in our goals (the possibility of
which I dispute elsewhere), does the benefit to the poorest offset the anger
someone feels when their property is taken in name of the State? What about gut
wrenching questions, when our resources cannot provide medical treatment to
everyone, how do we measure the suffering of this family or that family when
someone must be denied treatment?  No matter how you try to answer these
questions you can find exceptions, and will find the answers ultimately very
subjective.  

Are all pleasures created equal?  Many philosophers, including some who embraced
some version of utilitarianism or really any form of consequentialism, in
practice rank different forms of pleasure as having different
value.[^20210913-4] Even if you *can* quantify pleasures and suffering, the
minute you go down *this* route, you have asserted an independent objective
standard of good and less good, and thus, implicitly, right and wrong.  If you
have an objected standard of right and wrong that is independent of how much
happiness is produced, then *that standard*, and not the utility of the act,
determines right and wrong.  

Thirdly, ultimately, if what matters most is what maximizes the overall good of
the collective, then the individual good of any particular person can be not
only neglected, but actively harmed.  The [Internet Encyclopedia of
Philosophy][IEP1]'s article on [Utilitarianism][IEPU1] outlines this as part of
its discussion of "wrong answers" in the two sections on objections to the
different versions of this philosophy.  Suffice to say that utilitarianism
denies the concept of justice[^20210913-6], and no one is really safe under a
regime ruled by these tenants. 

[^20210913-6]: Fr. John Hardon.
    "[Justice](https://www.catholicculture.org/culture/library/dictionary/index.cfm?id=34423)"
    _[Modern Catholic Dictionary](https://www.catholicculture.org/culture/library/dictionary/)_
    Â© Eternal Life

[IEPU1]: https://iep.utm.edu/util-a-r/

[IEP1]: https://iep.utm.edu/

[^20210913-4]: [Wikipedia](https://wikipedia.org)
    "[Higher and lower pleasures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism#Higher_and_lower_pleasures)"
    in "[Utilitarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism)"
    Last Edited: 2021-09-12. Last Viewed: 2021-09-13. 

[^20210913-3]: [Merriam-Webster Dictionary](https://Merriam-Webster.com)
    "[Utilitarianism](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/utilitarianism)"
    Accessed 2021-09-13. 

[^20210913-2]: Mr. Michael Dinneen.
    "[The Highest Good](https://www.newadvent.org/cathen/06640a.htm)"
    _[The Catholic Encyclopedia](https://www.newadvent.org/cathen)_
    New York: Robert Appleton Company, 1909. Last Viewed: 2021-09-13.
