#+POSTID: 782
#+DATE: [2007-01-03 Wed 16:04]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: morality/religion
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: A link we ignore at great cost

> [T]he Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy found that boys molested by men are almost four times more likely to become homosexual or bisexual than boys who weren't molested. Homosexual activists don't want you to know that, because it undermines the myth that people are "born gay." Although homosexuals and bisexuals are less than 3% of the male population, male-on-male abuse accounts for about a third of all child molestation. The Archives of Sexual Behavior reported that "eighty-six percent of offenders against males described themselves as homosexual or bisexual." Homosexual activists don't want you to know that either, because it undermines the myth that homosexuality is an entirely harmless "identity," rather than a psychological and behavioral pathology. Not all homosexuals are child molesters, and not all child molesters are homosexual--but the link is simply too strong to ignore - even if it is politically incorrect.^[\\[1\\]][ref1]^

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Naturally statistics like these, if accurate and reflective of reality (statistics are always suspect), would reshape our perception of the problems in the church. It appears the Vatican, and our bishops here, believe these statistics. The logical necessity of their crackdown on the admission of those with homosexual tendencies to the priesthood follows from this. Indeed, if you believe these statistics to be accurate, it would be hard to justify \*not\* acting as they have.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Mr. Tony Perkins. "The Politically Incorrect Truth" Washington Update. 2006-10-05. http://www.frc.org/index.cfm?f=WU06J04&t=e&t=e\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref1]: http://www.frc.org/index.cfm?f=WU06J04&t=e&t=e "The Politically Incorrect Truth"





