#+POSTID: 629
#+DATE: [2006-02-23 Thu 16:36]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: morality/religion, politics/law
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: A pro-life Democrat

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
It is easy to be upset with the Republicans. There are rumors that they regret the fight to get two pro-life Supreme Court Justices confirmed. They have failed to reform the tax code. They have largely failed to even reduce taxes without reform. They failed to reform social security. They launched us into the war with Iraq, and are now playing brinkmanship with Iran. They support the death penalty. A host of examples.

For now, however, they have had my vote. In my mind our first and foremost responsibility is to work for an end to abortion on demand, and our second priority must be the defense of the family. The Republicans have, by and large, provided the only candidates that will join even half-hearted in these goals.

And so Mr. Cleaveland is correct, the race in Pennsylvania should prove an interesting one, as the Democrats choose to field an unabashedly pro-life, Catholic Democrat.^[[1]](http://www.ncregister.com/articulo4.php?artkod=MTky\ "Why\ No\ One\ Asked\ About\ Alito’s\ Faith")^ I do not know that I would vote for him. There *are* other issues I consider. I also do not know where he stands on my second priority, the defense of the family. But for once I would have to consider. I am no longer convinced that voting for the Republicans is an effective way to combat the growth of government and socialism, and so it might be worth while to vote for a pro-life, pro-family Democrat simply to try to make the Republicans more aware of where their bread is buttered. Too bad that here, in Virginia, I do not really have that choice.

Mr. Raymond Cleaveland. "Why No One Asked About Alito’s Faith" National Catholic Register 2006-02-19. http://www.ncregister.com/articulo4.php?artkod=MTky





