#+POSTID: 415
#+DATE: [2005-07-05 Tue 18:46]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: politics/law
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: A right to privacy

The National Catholic Register has what may or may not be a unique take on how to take back our society. Rather than denying that there is a right to privacy, they suggest we simply write it.[[1]](http://www.ncregister.com/current/0703lead2.htm) If we were to define a right to privacy in a properly worded amendment, we would arm those justices that care about what the constitution *says*, as opposed to what they personally desire, a weapon with which to protect the individual's right to privacy, a right that common sense says *must* exist, while still resisting the waywardness of the left. It could also be used to restrict the ways in which the left can go wayward, as it is significantly harder to redefine something to suit when it really is written somewhere.

I like this approach because in today's technology driven society, it is all to easy to fall under surveillance. From companies tracking you and selling personal information, to a true succulence society where every minute you are under cameras, in public at least, we see privacy growing ever more valuable, and ever harder to protect. Society is even starting to recognize this, in the form of laws that specifically penalize identity theft, require greater accountability from credit reporting agencies, and so on. Once it was only from the government that citizens need fear from unreasonable searches. Today, its all to easy to wake up and find out that someone else has run up credit card bills in your name, and that your employer wants to fire you if you smoke on your own time.[[2]](./index.php?s=Weyco) This is not a time to be stripping away privacy simply because the concept has been abused. Rather, we need to take it back, along with the rest of society.

[1] McDermott, Scott. "The American Pontifex" National Catholic Register, July 3-9, 2005 http://www.ncregister.com/current/0703lead2.htm   
 [2] Search this journal for entries talking about Weyco.





