#+POSTID: 797
#+DATE: [2007-02-06 Tue 18:09]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: quizes
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: book meme

> Please:\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Grab the nearest book.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#2. Open the book to page 123.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#3. Find the fifth sentence.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#4. Post the text of the next 3 sentences on your blog along\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#with these instructions.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#5. Tag 5 people.^[\\[1\\]][ref1]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#I am skipping step 5. One, because there aren't 5 people I could tag who will not already have seen this, two because its too chain letterish. You will not that she did not tag anyone either.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#I have two books approximately equidistant from me, since I had two books in my bag today.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Ms. L. M. Montgomery. *Anne of the Island*. Page 123 of my edition, sentences 5-8:
> In fact, I daresay they're a good deal the worse. But they've worn nice and easy. New shoes are smarter than old ones, but the old ones are the more comfortable.

Aunt Jamesina's introductory speach to the girls as they set up housekeeping at "Patty's Place" for their sophmore year at Redmond.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#2. Mr. Peter Kreeft & Mr. Ronald K. Tacelli. *Handbook of Christian Apologetics* Page 123 of my edition, sentences 5-8:
> The heart of the problem is not found in words like ours, in a book, but in the words from the cross: "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" It is a problem not on paper, but on wood.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Three forms of the problem of evil must be distinguished:\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. It may be claimed that \*any\* evil disproves an all-good God.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#2. Or it may be claimed that the \*amount\* of evil, the superfluity and needlessness and pointlessness of much evil, disproves God.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#3. Or it may be claimed that the \*unjust distribution\* of evil disproves God--not that bad things happen, or even that so many bad things happen, but that they happen to good people just as much as to bad people.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#

Here we are looking at part of the introduction to what will be an entire chapter devoted to the question fairly well summed up in those bullets. \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Miss "Baranoouji." "Book meme" The Young Lady's Illustrated Primer. 2007-02-06 http://baranoouji.livejournal.com/317012.html\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref1]: http://baranoouji.livejournal.com/317012.html "Book meme"





