#+POSTID: 587
#+DATE: [2006-01-12 Thu 16:51]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: morality/religion
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: Is Catholic Schooling Worthwhile?

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
Looking at graduates of Catholic schools,

> Dr Saker found that fewer than 13 per cent regularly attended Mass and most ignored church moral teachings. Nearly 80 per cent disagreed that using contraception was sinful, 66 per cent disagreed that homosexuality was sinful, 60 per cent denied that sex outside marriage was sinful and 68 per cent denied Catholic teaching on papal infallibility.^[1]^

Mr. Zwartz sees statistics like these and wonders, what is the point of Catholic schooling? He finds this especially true as Dr. Saker continues his report, saying that when confronted with the reasoning behind doctrine at a university level, most students express surprise, not having heard an explanation previously.

Obviously some of this is due to lack of attention on the student's side. I sincerely doubt that every teacher in all eight to twelve years of their Catholic Schooling was that utterly inept and ineffective. Still, this does raise an important point, one that our own bishops are attempting to address in their close look at the textbooks used in schools. By ensuring that not only are textbooks free from error, but that they also contain a complete presentation of the faith, perhaps we can avoid this problem, wherein students reject things they do not know for reasons they cannot articulate.

Still, ultimate responsibility for this reality must rest on the parents. Though the schools play an invaluable role in educating children, it remains the primary responsibility of the parents, and not the State or parish, to monitor, regulate, and ensure the education of their children. This failure, then, is one of parenting.

Mr. Barney Zwartz. "Catholic teachings 'irrelevant'" The Age (theage.com.au). 2006-01-09 http://www.theage.com.au/news/national/catholic-teachings-irrelevant/2006/01/08/1136655087025.html





