#+POSTID: 917
#+DATE: [2007-12-17 Mon 18:39]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: Uncategorized
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: Left versus Right Brained

> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Thank you for taking the Creativity Test. The results show your brain dominance as being:  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Left Brain Right Brain  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#48% 52%  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#You are more right-brained than left-brained. The right side of your brain controls the left side of your body. In addition to being known as right-brained, you are also known as a creative thinker who uses feeling and intuition to gather information. You retain this information through the use of images and patterns. You are able to visualize the "whole" picture first, and then work backwards to put the pieces together to create the "whole" picture. Your thought process can appear quite illogical and meandering. The problem-solving techniques that you use involve free association, which is often very innovative and creative. The routes taken to arrive at your conclusions are completely opposite to what a left-brained person would be accustomed. You probably find it easy to express yourself using art, dance, or music. Some occupations usually held by a right-brained person are forest ranger, athlete, beautician, actor/actress, craftsman, and artist.  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Your complete evaluation follows below: \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Your left brain/right brain percentage was calculated by combining the individual scores of each half's sub-categories. They are as follows:  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Your Left Brain Percentages  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 34% Symbolic (Your most dominant characteristic)  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 27% Reality-based  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 22% Sequential  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 21% Logical  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 16% Linear  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 7% Verbal (Your least dominant characteristic)  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Your Right Brain Percentages  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 38% Nonverbal (Your most dominant characteristic)  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 32% Fantasy-oriented  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 20% Intuitive  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 18% Holistic  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 10% Concrete  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\# 6% Random (Your least dominant characteristic)  
> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[\^200712171]

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[\^200712171]: The Art Institute of Vancouver "Right Brain vs Left Brain Creativity Test"
http://www.wherecreativitygoestoschool.com/vancouver/left\_right/rb\_test.htm\>\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#





