#+POSTID: 735
#+DATE: [2006-10-05 Thu 17:21]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: plate tectonics
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: Lots of fossils, but why?

From the BBC:^[\\[1\\]][ref1]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> Norwegian scientists have discovered a "treasure trove" of fossils belonging\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> to giant sea reptiles that roamed the seas at the time of the dinosaurs.^[\\[2\\]][ref2]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#…\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> The researchers even found evidence of an attack on one of the creatures. An\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> ichthyosaur tooth is embedded in a neck vertebra from one plesiosaur belonging\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> to the genus Kimmerosaurus.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> The fossil hoard comprises 21 long-necked plesiosaurs, six ichthyosaurs and one\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> short-necked plesiosaur. The bones were unearthed in fine-grained sedimentary\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> rock called black shale.^[\\[3\\]][ref3]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#…\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> After death, the carcasses came to rest in mud at the bottom of the deep ocean,\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> where little or no oxygen was present.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> Dr Hurum said an unusual chemistry of the mud could have been responsible for\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> the remarkable preservation of the specimens: "Something happened with the\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> chemistry that's really good for bone preservation. Some skeletons are pale white\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\> even though they're in black shale - they look like roadkill."^[\\[4\\]][ref4]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#All this, tons of fossils, very complete fossils, just happen to come die in one area. They do so apparently in the midst of every day life, they did not just grow old and die here, but we see evidence that one was eating and/or attacking another. But absolutely no speculation on what would have caused such an event.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Think about it. What killed both the attacked and the attacker, that both would come to rest in this special mud? Might this be evidence that something, say, \*abnormal\* happened? Perhaps even \*cataclysmic\*? Something outside the bounds of the gradualism that plate tectonics (and science in general) would assert?\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Mr. Paul Rincon. "'Monster' fossil find in Arctic" BBC News Science Section. 2006-10-05. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/5403570.stm\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#2. Ibid.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#3. Ibid.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#4. Ibid.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref1]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/5403570.stm "BBC News | Science/Nature | 'Monster' fossil find in Arctic"\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref2]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/5403570.stm "BBC News | Science/Nature | 'Monster' fossil find in Arctic"\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref3]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/5403570.stm "BBC News | Science/Nature | 'Monster' fossil find in Arctic"\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref4]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/5403570.stm "BBC News | Science/Nature | 'Monster' fossil find in Arctic"





