#+POSTID: 649
#+DATE: [2006-07-03 Mon 16:37]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: politics/law, science
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: RFID tags come to the infirm

This^[[1]](http://www.theledger.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20060702/APF/607020769\ "Fla.-made\ microchip\ to\ be\ used\ in\ volunteers\ with\ memory\ loss")^ sort of development always makes me worry. Puerto Rico is going forward with plans to implant some sort of RFID chip in patients experiencing memory loss. From the headline, you might think this chip is supposed to help the patients in some way. If so, I really do not see it. Rather, this chip appears to contain identity information and/or medical records.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#The aged and infirm, such as Alzheimer's patients, are some of the most vulnerable in our society, after the unborn. It is natural that they would be targeted before any other group for such "advances." Perhaps there is even some legitimate gain to this.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#It brings us inevitably closer to a universal survalence society though. As such tags gain increasing "optional" usage, the day comes closer where they will become mandatory in some place and situation. From that point on, the use of them and the requirement of them will spread. I feel sure that we will all come to regret it.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
The Associated Press. "Fla.-made microchip to be used in volunteers with memory loss" theledger.com 2006-07-02. http://www.theledger.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20060702/APF/607020769
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#





