#+POSTID: 798
#+DATE: [2007-02-12 Mon 15:37]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: Global Warming
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: Solar Radiation & Climate

> [D]id anyone tell you that in east Antarctica the Adélie penguins and Cape petrels are turning up at their spring nesting sites around nine days later than they did 50 years ago? While sea-ice has diminished in the Arctic since 1978, it has grown by 8% in the Southern Ocean.^[\\[1\\]][ref1]^

\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Why is Antarctica's ice mass growing, why is it colder there? Because the ice is brighter and more reflective than cloud cover. Cloud cover is, according to Dr. Henrik Svensmark, linked to cosmic radiation.^[\\[2\\]][ref1]^ Dr. Svensmark had trouble publishing his research, as do many scientists who doubt global warming is a product of man's destruction of the environment. Still, it did eventually make it into a peer-reviewed journal, the Proceedings of the Royal Society, in late 2006 (the article does not say exactly when unfortunately).^[\\[3\\]][ref1]^\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#This is yet more confirmation of the sun's influence on our climate, as the change in solar activity is directly responsible for a change in the amount of cosmic radiation hitting the Earth. With more solar activity, less radiation is reaching us, therefore less clouds. And so Antarctica is cooling even while the Arctic is melting. \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#1. Nigel Calder. "An experiment that hints we are wrong on climate change" TimesOnline 2007-02-11 http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/uk/article1363818.ece\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#2. Ibid.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#3. Ibid.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#[ref1]: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/uk/article1363818.ece "An experiment that hints we are wrong on climate change"





