#+POSTID: 709
#+DATE: [2006-09-14 Thu 16:04]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil tags:nil ^:nil TeX:nil
#+CATEGORY: morality/religion, politics/law
#+TAGS: 
#+TITLE: The Crusades Continue

Mr. George Weigel has masterfully summed up were we stand, after nearly 5 years of open warfare.^[[1]](http://www.archden.org/dcr/news.php?e=383&s=3&a=8088\ "9/11,\ Five\ Years\ Later")^ Our war in Afghanistan, and our war in Iraq, the war between Isreal and Lebanon, and the radicalism at work in Iran are not separate events, separate conflicts. They are just the next chapter in the centuries long conflict between Christiandom, or in this case its remains, and radical Islam. We will continue to have trouble winning in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and in influencing Iran until we recognize this fact, and react accordingly: with conversion of self (and others) and with a renewed, reborn, commitment to prayer. \#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#Moreover, when we do engage in armed conflict, be it resistance, or be it offensive, we must do so remembering that we are seen as representatives of Christiandom and act accordingly. For that reason, if no other (and I do believe there are other good reasons), we should rethink our commitment to Isreal, who does not support even so much of the fullness of our Christian faith (though we do worship the same God), as our separated (Protestant) brothers and sisters do. We have an obligation to protect them, but we need not enable their own tendency to atrocity.\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#
Mr. George Weigel. "9/11, Five Years Later." Denver Catholic Register. 2006-09-13. http://www.archden.org/dcr/news.php?e=383&s=3&a=8088
\#$NEWLINE-MARKER$\#





