---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-07-24 00:18:13"
tags:
  - ", "personal
  - ", "society
---
<p>Andrius and I, tonight, by virtue of Vincas's intervention, discovered that "nation" has far too flexible a definition to hold real meaning.  It means both those born to a place and those existing in it.  this flexible a definition obscures too much, allowing you to become of a nation, but never to leave it (with the exception of the immigrant, who if he immigrates again, will leave one of his two nationalities).  "People" is much more usefully defined, being a body of people, be it community or tribe or whatever, who jointly compromise a whole.  "Clan" is defined to be a group related by blood or marriage, under a chieftain.  Excepting a requirement of chieftain then, "clan" is very nearly the way I have used the word "family."  "Kindred" would also be fairly close.</p>  <p>Vincas says I need to invent and define a word of my own, to allow for the specificity my ideas and ability to understand require. My imagination fails me.</p>  <p>There exists a relation between people who have chosen to be <em>of</em> a geographical location, either by birth, or immigration.  While this can lead to the <em>appearance</em> having this relationship with multiple localities.  However, the theoretical (sometimes actual) exercise of putting the two localities in opposition demonstrates that one's tie must be to exactly one. This is necessarily a personal decision, the current reaction to that decision may affect it, but does not do the deciding.  The future reaction may differ, but man not having awareness of that future change will not account for it in his thinking.  This then means that man in his head feels that his bond to one locality is more significant, more meaningful, more real, that that to the other. This is <em>not</em> to be confused with the man who fights against an immoral government with those of another locality without ever being <em>of</em> them.</p>  <p>There exists a relationship between men because they are related. They are siblings (by birth or marriage), or their parents were, or their grandparents were, or so on.  They know themselves to be related, they acknowledge that relationship to be significant. They have been raised with at least certain common traditions and cultural elements in common.  In a lesser form of the same relation, perhaps the connection is lost in history, yet still, the commonality causes them to be aware they they are yet one.</p>  <p>Overlapping with the above, there is a relation between men simply because they <em>do</em> share certain values, certain traditions. This creates a bond of common cause and common struggle.  This bond is not always distinguishable from the lesser form of the bond described above, and perhaps is even the same.</p>

