---

title: 20050414-1442
date: 2005-04-14 19:42:00
layout: rut
---

<p> I am not quite sure were to start or subdivide my
posts right now, I have 3 articles, 2 from the New York
Times, and one from the BBC, all dealing in one way or
another with morality.  "<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/13/nyregion/13penn.html?ex=<?php
echo htmlentities("1271044800&en=b29f1005fcc27855&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt");
?>">DNA Tells Students They Aren't Who They Thought</a>" is a rather
silly article on the fact that the races are not all that clearly
cut today.  Based on cheek swab DNA tests, one class learned that
their racial identity, genetically speaking, is far less clear than
they thought.  This really does not come as a huge surprise at all,
and is in fact a good thing.  This really just follows from common
sense, you have been seeing interracial children since Europeans
and Africans for centuries now, you see it even in Shakespeare
("Othello"), and it surely must have been a reality of Roman times
as well, there is nothing new under the sun.  More recently, how
can you tell the stories of slave owners that our history books
glory in, depicting them at their worst, and not realize that our
"African Americans" are not all that purely "African" any more?
But however silly the article, it is good that such ideas are
starting to permeate even the liberal consciousness, as it can only
serve to blur the lines between the races, and racial equality will
only come with racial blindness.  Why is it that color is more
than a descriptive?  Only because we make it so, only because we
are not one culture, one people.</p>

Next comes "<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/14/international/worldspecial2/14youth.html?ei=<?php
echo htmlentities("5088&en=b767f7e6ab615428&ex=1271131200&partner=rssnyt&pagewanted=print&position=");
?>">Young Catholics Seek to Restore Old Values on Sex</a>," the other
New York Times article.  This one finds that many young people are
more theologically conservative than their parents were.  It quickly
backtracks, saying that not all young Catholics agree with our late
Pope, and that there is a similar swing towards social conservatism
in young people of other denominations, but this does not negate the
truth it first asserts.  This almost brings me some home, that having
explored the limits, and the despair, of tolerance, we are perhaps
again learning that some things cannot and must not be tolerated.
It also notes in passing a key point, the parishes of the more
conservative priests are the ones that are growing most notably,
not the ones of the liberal priests the New York Times loves to
quote and hold up.

<p>Last but hardly least, comes "<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/4444473.stm">Prisoners
'aware' in executions</a>," which, I suspect, will begin the process
by which yet another execution method will be declared "cruel and
unusual".  Part of me is happy to see this; the part of me that would
justify the means by the ends is happy to see another advance towards
the end of the death penalty.  Part of me is dismayed, how could
we overlook such an obvious concern as making sure that the person
was anesthetized?  Part of me hopes that it will simply be modified,
not ruled unconstitutional: we have gone too far in declaring things
"cruel and unusual."  The death penalty is neither cruel nor unusual,
it is merely unnecessary and thus unjust.  We are not called to the
usual path, but to the hard one.  To approach the death penalty
in terms of "cruel and unusual" is to ignore the argument that
it is simply inherently unjust no matter how it is done.  It is
to ignore the right of the state to act to protect its citizens.
It is to ignore the convict's value as a human life, intrinsic
value, and argue alone on the quality of death.  We are not, in so
arguing, objecting to the death, but to the method of execution.
But the method itself is not what we truly quarrel with.  Indeed,
there is something to be said for the firing squad, it gave God a
chance to act and preserve the life of the convict from the hands
of the state.  There is something to be said for suffering, our
Lord suffered, and we are admonished by the example of the saints
to join our suffering to His, for the greater glory of God.  If the
man must die, let us not quibble about how, so long as it is not
a truly horrific death, but if, as the Church argues, it is not
necessary he must die, let us again, not quibble about how he does
die, but work to end all unjust death.  For as long as the death
penalty is an option, man will invent new ways by which to kill
each other to get around successive "cruel and unusual" findings.</p>

