[[!meta title="Harry Potter - Nephilim: Chapter 4"]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]
## Harry Potter - Nephilim
### Chapter 4

It was not until part way through Year 4, when Harry was eight, that an idea
occurred to him that would, along with his skills in mind magic, drastically
reshape his future.  Harry had tried, with no real hope, but rather with stubborn
persistence that it *should* work because it it was right, to report his
relatives' abuse to his newest teacher.[^20210412-2] As he returned to school
the next day he observed that yet another teacher had, disappointingly but not
unexpectedly, forgotten him and his report.  A little older, it occurred to
Harry to wonder if there was something he could do to make himself less
forgettable.  Perhaps he could do more than just see into his teacher's head.
Perhaps he could *make* his teacher remember him.  

This started a new pattern.  Every day Harry would attempt to report his aunt
and uncle, the fact that he lived in a cupboard, the frequent missed meals.  Each
time he would try to use his legilimancy (he did not know to call it this, but
it was in fact legilimancy) attempting to do *something* to make his teacher
remember the conversation.  He spent months trying to directly force the memory
to be, in fact, remembered, but eventually gave up.  Harry realised that the
only people whose memories he could *see* were Mrs. Figg's and the random
strange people who seemed to know him and disappear, like the tiny man in the
violet top hat who had bowed to him once.[^20210412-3] If he could only see
memories from a handful of people, only one of whom he saw more than once, he
realised it made sense that he could not touch memories for most people. 

Next he tried making the problem seem more memorable other ways.  He tried
making his teacher angry about it, he tried making his teacher worried about
him, he tried telling his teacher about no one remembering and making his
teacher scared.  Each of these *seemed* to work, but each time, as soon as his
teacher was out of sight, the whole thing would be forgotten.  Once he was left
sitting out side the principal's office while the teacher went in to talk.  Five
minutes later, both had walked out and neither remembered asking Harry to wait
for them there.  They got upset when Harry tried to insist that he had just been
talking to them.  Clearly whatever was at work was far more powerful (so Harry's
thoughts went) than anything he could do.  

Still, that did not mean he was powerless.  He had learned quite a bit with
these months of experiments.  Perhaps, if he was going to be unable to get away
from the Dursleys, he could make living with them more endurable?  Perhaps
instead of being *less* forgettable, he should try to become *more* forgettable?
If Dudley forgot about him, then he and his gang would probably pick some other
target.  Harry disliked this solution, he would prefer that *no one* get picked
on, but it would be nice to get a break now and then, to be able to relax and
let his guard down at least some of the time. 

This new approach was *almost* as frustrating as his attempts at being
remembered.  Harry had just enough success that he kept trying, but not enough
that he ever stopped looking for something that would work better.  On the plus
side, Harry had few chores that summer - he successfully manipulated his aunt
such that she preferred him out of the house and out of sight.  On the down
side, he had much less success with groups of people, like Dudley and his gang.
This gave him lots of opportunity for practice, but, with each failure, lots of
bruises, and on two particularly memorable occasions, broken bones to heal with
the healing magic he'd been forced learn.  

His most promising approach so far was to make Dudley feel more lazy, less
inclined to chase Harry.  The problem was that Piers Polkiss, Dudley's best
friend, was twice as mean and half as inclined to be lazy as Dudley was.  If
Piers had not been such a scrawny thing, and, despite his meanness, secretly
scared of Dudley's temper, he probably would have lead the gang, and not Dudley.
Distracting one of them was doable.  Keeping both of them distracted required
different emotional manipulations, and so inevitably Harry would loose his
concentration and one of the gang members would find and catch him.  

- - -

If Lily had been paying attention, she would have been appalled at the results
of having taught Harry passive legilimancy.  The mind magics are one of the more
dangerous fields of study — easy to abuse, rife with the potential for long term
effects.  Had she still been alive, her body and soul still integrated, she
would have realised that she was putting Harry in a situation where the
temptations would be beyond his ability to resist.  

Harry entered Year 5 having spent most of his life using mind magics to commune
with his mother's spirit, and to fight off the attacks from Riddle's spirit;
much of Year 3 in *relatively* harmless passive inspection of the people around
him; then most of Year 4 in active attempts at subverting the minds of the
adults in school; and finally the last two months of school and all summer in
frequent regularly invasion of and manipulation of the minds of his classmates.
He had used more of the mind magics than most adult practitioners do in entire
lifetimes.  Even inveterate meddlers like Albus Dumbledore knew to keep their
touch light and their time in someone else's mind short.  A dark lord like
Riddle had no problems ransacking someone's mind for information, but the very
willingness to brutally violate the person meant that they rarely spent more
than more than a few minutes actually in the other person's head.  More
responsible people like those few healers who knew something about helping the
victims of such attacks might spend hours on a single patient, but rarely worked
with more than one or two such patients in a month. Harry was constantly fumbling
and experimenting each day every day on a dozen classmates.  He spent hours to
achieve results that a trained legilimens might do in seconds.  With practice
Harry got better, faster, more adept, but in a real, though unseen, sense it was
already too late. 

The nephilim are an unstable hybrid, and the abuse of their powers, no matter
that Harry had no true ill intent, comes at the cost of destabilising the very
nature of their being.  In times past, this destabilisation has taken many forms.
Sometimes it has mutated the abusers physically, leading to the existence of
centaurs and goblins.  Other times it has made changes that the abusers hoped to
be temporary into permanent hereditary changes, such as what happened with the
merfolk.  In Harry's case the changes were more subtle.  Harry was consciously
looking to hide from those around him, and unconsciously looking for someone to
connect with, someone who would love him the way his mother's spirit did, but be
truly there for him in a way he could not remember her ever being.[^20210412-4]
As he over-used legilimancy, the magic started to change him in subtle ways.
Unlike the gross physical changes that the centaurs experienced, the changes
were interior, changes to his mind, his soul, his magic.  Harry began to become
someone who would be magically hidden from nearly everyone, but profoundly
connect to those closest to him.  

And yet, as Year 5 began, these changes were only starting to take hold, to find
form, and to shape the kind of person that Harry would be.

[^20210412-2]: I think this is in character for Harry.  In the first book, Harry
    cannot actually expect fair treatment from his uncle.  It has to be pure
    stubborn instance in demanding just treatment that causes him to demand his
    letter the way he does.  

[^20210412-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 30. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210412-4]: This is not intended as Lily Potter bashing.  Lily was a good
    parent, but Harry was too young to remember her when she was alive.  His
    experience of her is of a highly distracted dis-embodied soul who is so
    caught up in spiritual warfare that she barely has time for him.  It is not
    that dis-embodied Lily loves Harry any less, it is that *time* is a function
    of the material world that Lily is disconnected from by virtue of being 1)
    dead and 2) actively trying to preserve her son's autonomy despite both her
    own and Riddle's foreign presence.  
