[[!meta title="Harry Potter - Nephilim: Chapter 1"]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]
== Harry Potter - Nephilim
=== Chapter 1

Vernon Dursley was a huge walrus of a man, with a large moustache and hardly any neck. Although fundamentally a bully by nature, Vernon would never dream of crossing his wife, Petunia.  It was not that she was physically intimidating.  Almost anorexic woman, with a rather horsey face, you might have been excused for thinking her the victim and Vernon the aggressor.  Instead, deep down (as much as he denied it even to himself), he secretly dreaded her shrewish temper.  He did all he could to accommodate her obsessions, while fully sharing her small minded bigotry, and petty hatreds.  Thus when they found their nephew on their doorstep one morning, the only real question was just how bad things would get. 

The Dursleys were not monsters, nor was Dumbledore in sending Harry to them  The Dursleys did not take in their nephew and immediately start plotting all the ways they would keep his spirits down, or how they would keep him ignorant of his heritage.  Dumbledore's note included no spells to create animosity, no injunctions to be strict.  Petunia may have been sincerely displeased to see Harry on her doorstep, but her *initial* reaction was to do reasonably decent by him.  

The problem was that Harry's world had been shattered.  When he woke, he started crying for his parents.  This was an unpleasant reminder of the sister Petunia wanted to forget.  When he would wake in the middle of the night, her irritation gave Vernon license to take out some of his aggression on the toddler.  And so, Harry moved from the smallest bedroom where he could be heard crying at night, to the closet under the stairs, where his cries were muffled.  
