[[!meta title="Harry Potter - Nephilim: Chapter 5"]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]
## Harry Potter - Nephilim
### Chapter 5

At first the changes were subtle.  In prior years, the teacher would frequently
notice something was off about that Potter child.  The oversized clothing, the
odd high pitched whisper of a voice, the way he flinched if anyone came too
close would all normally attract a conscientious educator's attention.  In that
respect, this year started *almost* the same way - during morning
attendance,[^20210528-1] the teacher frowned and gave him an odd look, the kind
that frequently meant a conversation after class, but then seamed to forget
about him even faster than his other teachers had.  She seamed never to notice
him sitting quietly the rest of the day.  

It in the phys ed classes that Harry first noticed that something was
significantly different.  Dudley disliked these classes, and frequently found
ways to be disruptive.  Harry realised that unlike last year, he did not have to
use his legilimency to redirect Dudley.  It was not that Dudley was behaving any
better, rather, he was simply more random in his selection of a target.  It took
rather longer for Harry to make the next realisation: in any activity where the
teacher worked down a checklist, timed swimming trials for example,[^20210810-1]
he would be called on.  But in anything requiring teams, the teacher would
somehow forget to assign him to *either* team unless he said something.  It was
very confusing.

For Harry, the overall results were not entirely positive.  On one hand, he
found the school day more pleasant, he was learning more, and dodging less.  On
the other, the teachers seemed to notice Dudley's behaviour more now that he was
targeting a wider range of students in class.  They started to send letters home
with him, and when Petunia binned them without action, started to call in the
evenings.  Vernon did not like his evening to be disturbed by an irate teacher
or parent complaining about Dudley; it was surely the Freak's fault - making
Dudley look bad somehow.  It was just as well that Harry could usually depend on
getting a good meal at school, because he was getting less and less at home as
Vernon took out his anger by locking him up more and more.  

While Dudley seemed to pick on the easiest target available during class, on
the way home from school it was a different story.  Something about heading home
inevitably reminded Dudley that he had not pounded on the Freak in a while.
This lead to Harry Hunting.  Since this had been one of Dudley's more consistent
"games" for the past two years, Harry was already fairly familiar with the
neighbourhood around Privet Drive.  Now, as the game moved towards a daily
occurrence, he was quickly memorising every available hiding place on each of the
various side streets he could take in his attempts to avoid his pursuers.  

Life thus settled into a pattern.  Harry found that he could avoid Uncle Vernon
more easily than he remembered being able to do even a few months ago, but that
whatever was happening did not work nearly so well on Aunt Petunia or Mrs. Figg.
It was clear that neither of them could see him unless he made a noise, but both
of them *remembered* him far more than Vernon, Dudley, or his teachers ever did.
This was both good and bad.  On the plus side, Aunt Petunia usually remembered
to unlock the cupboard in the mornings.  On the down side, she remembered to
give him chores, and follow up to see that they were completed.  Harry was not
lazy, but sometimes she gave him so much to do that it was hard to find time to
do his homework.  Overall, it was best when she didn't notice him.  He learned
to avoid making unnecessary noises, as that seemed to break or pause
his invisibility.  

Like many children before him, he found that when no one notices you are there,
adults say things that they would probably rather you not hear. It was this way
that he learned that his aunt and uncle were not quite as blind to Dudley's
faults as they pretended — he overheard his uncle on the phone with the school
superintendent one day, and saw an envelope change hands with one of the town
constables another.  Once, mowing Mrs. Figg's lawn, he overheard her talking to
someone in the house about making sure that the "obliv-somethings" made "their
monthly visit before people start asking questions again about Potter's
disgraceful clothing."  He wondered what an "obliv-something" was and if it
(they?) had anything to do with the way nothing had happened the one time he had
tried making an anonymous call to the local ACPCs.[^20210902-9]  Still, Harry
figured it was better to know more than not; already habitually silent, he was
now getting used to being invisible as well.  


---

This chapter is essentially introducing a new phase to Harry's life.  Harry can
be seen only for a short time after he is heard *saying* something.  Due to his
experiences so far, and the way that they've shaped him, he is disinclined to
speak much, so he's become nearly invisible.  This will interact with the
tendency that adults, other than Mrs. Figg and the Dursleys, have to forget
about him that we have talked about over the last few chapters. This chapter
should cover perhaps as much as the first term of the school year. 


[^20210528-1]: being an American, I do not actually know much about British
    schools, and have done only the most cursory research into them. Please
    forgive any inaccuracies. 

[^20210810-1]: <https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/239040/PRIMARY_national_curriculum_-_Physical_education.pdf> states that students should be taught to swim, and that performance should be compared, for each student, over time.  Timed laps seems like one way a school would implement these two directives. 

[^20210604-8]: See the [[History|Harry_Potter/Notes/History]] page, The Children Act of 1989 was not in effect yet. Again, please forgive my butchering of actual British law. 
