[[!meta title="Harry Potter - Nephilim: Introduction"]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]
## Harry Potter - Nephilim

### Introduction

I recently read _[Many Waters][MW]_ by Madeleine L'Engle.  Her theology in that
book is *really really* sketchy, but like many distortions of true Catholic
thought, makes for interesting fiction.  It occurred to me that while I have no
real interest in doing a true crossover with her works, that it would be fun to
cross over some of the (fake) theology from this book with the Harry Potter
series.  L'Engle, in her book, extends one of the two theories for understanding
the term *[nephilim][^20201209-1]* from the Old Testament. Specifically, she
takes the view that the those angels that rebelled against God had intercourse
with human women.  A lot of authors will try to do almost all their world
building within the narrative.  I realise this is technically better, but it is
also harder to do.  Since I am doing essentially a 3 way cross over between
Harry Potter, Many Waters, and actual Catholic theology, I am going to set the
stage here in this introduction.  These world building notes are useful to
understand the story, but are hopefully not truly necessary.  That being said, I
am not going to go out of my way to explain in depth the way some authors do, I
will just include it either here, or in an appendix. 

Some points of divergence from her ideas:

* she calls the fallen angels the nephilim.  I'm using more orthodox theology
  and calling the progeny of the union of an angel and a human a nephil (I'm
  using seraph - seraphim, cherub - cherubim, nephil - nephilim). 
* she has all such end with the great flood.  Later passages in the Old
  Testament suggest that nephilim continue to exist after the flood.  I am
  positing that fallen angels continued to seduce women during the Old Testament
  times. 

Some ideas I am specifically pulling:

* being seduced by a fallen angel is not just a matter of falling in love with
  the wrong person, the fallen angel also seduces you into an evil ritual that
  corrupts your soul. I am going to extend this and call such a person a witch.
  See below for deviations from Harry Potter.
* the fallen angels directly interact with humanity and have visible
  manifestations of the powers they retain from their angelic nature.  I'm
  extending this to say that some of these are inherited.

Some points of divergence from Harry Potter:

* Witches are those corrupted by union with fallen angels.  They do gain power
  (magic) from this union, but are corrupted by it.  Should they repent and
  receive forgiveness from their sins, they would also lose their access to
  magic.
* Modern day welders of magic, heavily influenced by paganism, and by those who
  have given into temptation, have obscured the difference between those who
  inherit magic and those who have gained it through sin. They call all female
  welders of magic witches, this is part denial, part self delusion, and part
  ignorance. Exactly how much of which differs from person to person. 
* The Old Testament references to witches refer to those corrupted by union with
  fallen angels, not to the children of such unions (This is almost certainly
  bogus and entirely fictional theology, but it is necessary for world
  building).
* The Statue of Secrecy was imperfectly implemented.  At one point, knowledge of
  the a-fore bullet points was commonly taught to most clergy.  With the
  disruptions to the education of clergy wrought by the enlightenment, and
  worse, by the modern era, now only a few priests and bishops know this
  history. 
* Per the above, I am asserting a historical fiction: witch hunting was a
  product of ignorance (sometimes poorly educated priests yes) and even more so
  of Protestantism.  The rejection of those parts of Sacred Tradition not
  contained in the Bible by Protestants caused them to reject the true
  understanding of the interactions between the fallen angels and humanity.
* Magic users *are not human.*  Just like a hippogriff is a blend of the
  incompatible horse and eagle that is not fully one nor the other, the person
  who can use magic is a nephilim, not a human.  
   * As a distortion of God's creation, nephilim do not, cannot fit cleanly into
     either creation or Divine Law. [Soteriology][WP1], [Missiology][WP2], and
     [Ecclesiology][WP3] get interesting (and fictional) curlicues and footnotes
     trying to deal with the chaotic fallout of the interaction between the
     angelic and the human in a nephil's nature.  This lets me do things to/with
     the characters that would not otherwise be at all moral. 
   * Just as a hippogriff is impossible by normal genetics, and cannot be
     explained by Mendelian inheritance patterns, children of either two nephil
     or one human and one nephil do not follow purely Mendelian inheritance
     patterns.
* I intended this long before I read this in any other work, but I intend that
  faith, prayer, the Sacraments, and sacramentals will all have actual
  effects.[^20210412-5]

[^20210412-5]: Darth Drafter. 
    _[The Little Veela that Could](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/5490079)_
    [Chapter Six](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/5490079/7/The-Little-Veela-that-Could)
    Published: 2009-11-05. Updated: 2012-06-28. Last Viewed: 2021-04-12.

### Magical Inheritance: 

Since I need non-Mendelian inheritance to explain both magical creatures and the
nephilim themselves, I am going to set some rules.  These are primarily for the
nephilim, the inheritance for magical creatures may follow modified versions of
these rules depending on exactly how the creature in question came to exist.
These rules are hierarchical, that is you need to apply the rules in order to
determine what happens to a given child. 

1. Children born of at least one magical parent have a 80% chance of following
   these rules, and a 20% chance of following Mendelian genetics.  If they
   follow Mendelian genetics, any magical abilities will tend to degrade with
   each generation that follows Mendelian genetics. In other words, they will
   become more and more normal, more and more in line with the way the world
   would have worked without disruption or intervention.  
1. Children not following Mendelian genetics will have a 80% chance of still
   following Mendelian for traits not influenced by the deviation that
   distinguishes them from the mundane (in the nephilim this includes height,
   skin tone, hair colour, eye colour, so on). 
1. For every generation that a mundane trait *does not* follow Mendelian
   genetics, the odds that the next generation also will not increases by 10%.
   Thus things like Weasley red hair (many generations), or Potter hair (at
   least 3 generations) start to become non-mundane traits.
1. For non-mundane traits, a male child will have (a female child has similar
   numbers, but switch father/mother ).
    * a 50% chance of inheriting solely from his father, 
    * a 16% chance of inheriting the sum total of both parents, 
    * a 14% chance of a partial inheritance from both parents,
    * a 7.5% chance of a partial inheritance from just his father, 
    * a 7% chance of inheriting solely from his mother, 
    * a 4% chance of a partial inheritance from just his mother,
    * a 1% chance of something truly bizarre happening
    * a 0.5% chance of becoming mundane,
1. Some uses of magic *requires* an emotional content (unforgivables require
   hatred, the patronus requires positive emotions, so on).  
    * Sufficient use of this magic predisposes the next generation to be
      susceptible to these emotions by 10% _per parent_.  
    * How much use qualifies as "sufficient" is insufficiently researched. 
    * Only magic that *requires* emotion does this.  Magic merely *affected* by
      emotion does not. 
    * This effect lasts for four generations.  
    * If the total effect exceeds 90% (at 100% you would have no free will),
      then the odds off something bizarre happening goes up by one percent for
      every 10% of difference.  So if for example all of your progenitors on
      both sizes excessively used the killing curse, you would be susceptible
      to hatred by 300% base, since the total effect cannot remove your free
      will, the actual effect is more complicated.  Your great-grandparents
      each had a 20% boost, but your grandparents inherited that 20% boost
      *from both sides* and *in addition* a 10% boost from each
      great-grandparent, for a total of a 60% boost.  Your parents were the
      first generation to exceed 90%: a 60% boost from each side plus 10% from
      each parent for a total of 140%.  This is reduced to 90%, but the chance
      of something bizarre is increased by 5%.  You then inherit 90% from each
      parent (180%) which is again reduced to 90%, but causes an additional
      boost on the chance of the bizarre, this time by 9%.  You are thus
      susceptible to hatred  by 90%, but the odds of something bizarre happening
      to you are the base  1% plus an additional 19% (5% from each parent plus
      9% from your own overflow) for a total of a 20% chance.
    * Inbreeding would make the above worse, as some progenitors would be
      counted twice over. 
    * Thus someone like Draco Malfoy actually does have tremendous trouble
      controlling his instinctual behaviour in many ways. Judged by human
      standards, he is mentally crippled, with severely damaged executive
      function, particularly in the areas of impulse control, aggression, and
      judgement. 
1. Harry Potter talks about two classes that require special mention, squibs and
   muggle born.  They are effectively inverse of each other. 
   * A true squib is the child who resulted from the 0.5% chance of becoming
     mundane.  Such a child is fully human, and no "muggle-born" will ever
     descend from such a child.
   * It is possible for a child receiving a partial inheritance from his or her
     parent(s) to have very low power.  On the scale of 1 to 10, in practice a
     child with a power level of 2 or below on all categories (see below) will
     be called a squib.  A child with 3 or below on all categories will not be
     invited to any magical school, but might be able to effectively use some
     magic.  A program like Kwick Spell might prey on such people.  
   * Because it is possible (16% chance) for the parents' abilities to
     recombine, these "squibs" who are actually extremely low powered nephilim,
     can eventually produce higher powered children.  These children will
     *generally* be low powered (a mix of 3s, 4s and 5s in the various
     categories).  However, sometimes (1% chance) the something bizarre
     increases the child's ability beyond expectations. 
   * This partially explains some of the bias against these "first generation"
     magical users.  Not only are they new to a xenophobic culture, but marrying
     them *generally* creates a risk of low powered children.  With this
     background, being of "pure" blood is basically ignoring the 19.5% chance of
     being under powered as compared to your parents. Illogical, but considering
     other human prejudices, not unreasonable. 
   * Per the the above, it is possible for a pure human to gain magic through
     the union with a fallen angel.  In practice, this has not happened in
     centuries, but magical society remembers adults suddenly having magic where
     none had been present before.  From this comes stories of magic being
     "stolen."  This is not true of course, no one lost the magic the witch
     gained from her unholy union, but most magic users do not believe in
     angels, much less fallen angels, and have a strong distrust for the Church.

#### Specifically human/nephil 

* nephil can be rated on a scale of 1 (low) to 10 (high) for access to each
  class of angelic abilities.
* For the purposes of this work, nephil can possibly inherit the following:
   * From the Seraphim, the ability to perceive the hearts of men (and
     nephilim)
   * From the Cherubim, the ability to perceive/detect what is done with these
     abilities
   * From the Thrones, the ability to bind the will of other nephilim.  For
     the purposes of this story, and *unlike cannon Harry Potter*, this ability
     has marginal *at best* affect on full humans. Things like the imperious
     curse or the confundus charm fit in here. 
   * From the Dominions, the ability to transmute the form, but not the
     substance, of one thing to another
   * From the Virtues the ability to temporarily augment the nature of the
     natural world
   * From the Powers, temporary & localised manipulation of the laws of physics
     and chemistry. Memory charms are a highly specialised use of this, because
     they interfere with the chemicals in your brain to manipulate the
     memories.
   * From the Principalities, the ability to create area effects on populations
     (unplottable, "muggle repelling", so on). This differs from the Thrones
     in that the gifts from the Thrones affect individuals regardless of
     location.  The gifts from the Principalities affect whoever, full human or
     nephil, is in the right location to be affected, and no one who is not in
     relationship to that location.  Your ability to see into a place, remember
     a place, stay near a place, so on.
   * From the Archangels, offensive magics (recall that the nephilim come from
     fallen angels, so some of these offensive magics are corrupted and should
     not be used)
   * From the angels, defensive magics (these can also be corrupted to the
     point of being dangerous to the user)
* Originally, centuries in the past, people tended to be highly specialised
  into one of these.  Overall there is a 30% chance of a child mixing
  the magical/angelic heritage of his/her parents.  While that might seem low,
  it is compounded over the number of generations.  In practice, in the modern
  era, every child has a reasonably mixed heritage, though the precise values
  1-10 for each category differ significantly from child to child.  
* "Standard" nephilim seem more or less humans with extra abilities, but this is
  not really true. If you consider creation as a hierarchy, humanity has always
  occupied a messy place - top of the material creation, bottom of the spiritual
  order, but destined, through grace, not merit, to be raised above its (our)
  natural place.  Introducing the nephilim in this fictional world, I am putting
  the nephilim as being an unnatural hybrid of two things God created. In making
  this hybrid, something of each was lost. They are thus *slightly* lesser than
  humans. Despite having greater capabilities in some ways, they have deficits
  in others, most notably, they are overall *less free.*  Their choices are
  often constrained in ways that are not externally apparent, things that would
  be temptations to a human can be overriding compulsions to a nephil, and they
  are vulnerable to each other (and to others who can use similar powers) in
  ways that humans are not. 
* Harry Potter cannon breaks magic down into 
  * charms - generally a mix of inheritance from Virtues and Powers for the
    lower years, however 
    - things like "cheering charms" are _actually_ a form of transmutation
      manipulating the form of brain chemicals, and thus, temporarily, their
      effect. 
    - memory charms like obliviation are a mix of transmutation on brain
      chemicals with the Seraphic ability to perceive (and thus target the
      transmutation really precisely). Because they are chemical in nature, they
      can work on full humans.  However, they can be more precisely targeted and
      more finely crafted/tuned when used against a nephil.  Thus you can make a
      human forget, say, the last hour, or the last day; you can make a nephil
      forget that a single person was present while otherwise remembering the
      event. 
    - Confundus type charms only work well on nephil, because they extend
      memory charms by depending on abilities inherited from Thrones. 
   * transfiguration is primarily from Dominions
   * conjuring requires inheritance from the Powers, as you are in essence
     manipulating quantum probabilities. 
   * Vanishing, though considered transfiguration, comes from the Powers, it is
     a form of dissolving something.  Because it is explained so poorly,
     students new to the practice will often actually attempt to modify the
     thing being vanished, resulting in transparent versions instead of
     something that has, to paraphrase McGonagall, gone into everything.  
   * Potions are complicated.   The magic comes in part from the brewer
     (primarily from the Virtues), and in part from the ingredients (depends on
     the potion in question). 
   * Alchemy is the attempt to make a transmutation affect not just the form
     but the substance.  In practice Alchemy is almost entirely coming from the
     Powers, but happening at the subatomic level.  Things like the Elixir of
     life are not *really* Alchemical at all, they are really potions only
     possible with the use of elements that can only be created/obtained
     through the use of Alchemical processes.  
   * Runes are also complicated.  Runes are _created_ from powers inherited
     from the Virtues, but *powered* by the inheritance related to the effect
     of the runes in question.  Thus two people equally skilled at creating
     runes might not be equally skilled at powering those runes, or vice versa.
     This is also a deviation from the cannon Harry Potter universe.  Runes can
     also be created to *absorb* power from the surrounding area to power
     connected sequences of runes, using abilities inherited from the
     Principalities.  This in practice reduces the effect of any attempt to use
     other powers in any way not connected to that rune sequence.  For a school
     like Hogwarts, it would be safer to practice your magic because the effect
     of each spell would be lessened.  The Hospital Wing would need to be
     shielded from this effect to ensure that you could still be cured using
     magic at full efficacy.  Overall, this effect would bluster Hogwart's
     reputation for being one of the safest places in Britain. 
   * divination has two categories.
       * prophesy is a morally suspect magic.  I am going to go with Biblical
         theology here; in divination the nephil knowingly or unknowingly
         communicates with fallen angels.  If they ever tell anything truthful,
         it is only because they judge it useful to lead us further into sin.
         Users of this magic make future generations more susceptible to magics
         inherited from the Seraphim and Thrones (for four generations per
         above).  Thus most prophesies are misleading, false, or both. 
       * Users particularly skilled in the abilities from the Seraphim may be
         able to use these abilities to make incredibly accurate predictions
         about people without crossing any lines.  Knowing that someone is
         clumsy from their memories, knowing that someone is afraid from their
         emotions, the user can predict some short term events and reactions in
         ways that might seem like divination.  Practices like palm reading, tea
         leaves, and crystal gazing grew from this magical insight into people. 
       * There is some crossover between the two, generally to the detriment of
         both the user and any understanding of the truth.
   * Arithmancy has a wikipedia definition as being a speciality of divination.
     For my purposes this is _almost_ true.  For my purposes Arithmancy attempts
     to predict the effect of a use of magic.  It attempts to make magic
     scientific.  However, it is complicated by the fact that its practitioners
     themselves do not actually understand the scientific method, nor agree on
     which mathematical system(s) they are using to do this in.  The field is
     dominated by people with only the vaguest idea of what the mundane world
     has done with either numbers or science in the past 200 years.  
   * Legilimancy - requires both an inheritance from the Seraphim and the
     Thrones, for this work it comes in 3 phases.  
       * Passively, it is solely from the Seraphim, and is morally neutral. This
         will tell you a target's emotional state (anything related to brain
         chemistry), whether or not the person is telling the truth (again based
         on brain chemistry and things like pulse rates, but done automatically
         for you by the magic), energy level/alertness, and other purely
         physical things but _not_ about the person's actual thoughts or
         memories. A really skilled user may be able to infer thoughts from a
         combination of this information and the subject/target's actions
         however with a fair degree of accuracy.  
       * Communicatively, it adds in abilities from the Thrones, forcing the
         recipient to hear your thoughts. This is a bit of a grey area morally.
       * Actively, you force the victim to reveal their memories, implant
         memories, or manipulate emotional states.  For some unknown reason,
         unless the target has at least some magic, you will be unable to do
         more than manipulate emotional states.  This manipulation goes beyond
         the simple transmutation of brain chemicals, it actually causes the
         brain to release the appropriate chemicals as if naturally in that
         emotional state. All active legilimancy is morally repugnant, and comes
         at a magical cost.  Excessive use of this form of legilimancy will have
         bizarre effects.  The effects may be physical, spiritual, mental, or
         any combination thereof. Per the above, what constitutes "excessive"
         has not been quantified.  To the extent that the use is not just
         excessive but also malicious and/or selfish (as opposed to defensive)
         in nature, the effects will not only be bizarre but hereditary, *and*
         will be coupled with reduced will-power in subsequent generations
         as is described in the section of magical inheritance for magics
         requiring emotional content. 
    * Occlumency - the magical suppression of emotion and with that access to
      thoughts comes at a similar moral and magical cost to active legilimancy.
      This work will offer magical defences to legilimancy besides that of
      occlumency.  
* Per the above, it takes approximately six consecutive generations of magical
  abuse for "truly bizarre" things to become not just possible but probable.
   * In _The Screwtape Letters_, describes the effect of sin on the fallen
     angels.[^20210408-1] At the risk of adding *yet another* crossover to this
     story, this is at the heart of explaining what is happening in the
     following instances of something "truly bizarre" happening instead of
     explicable magical inheritance. Essentially these represent instances of
     Divine Justice.  
   * Building on what I wrote above comparing "standard humans" to nephil,
     beings in these categories are even more corrupted by the combination of
     sin and the inherent weakness of being of a race that was made, and not
     created. For lack of of a better word, they are more nearly animals, they
     *do* have immortal souls, but, to differing degrees (depending on species)
     lack even more of the free will that is already impaired in the nephilim. 
     This list is essentially ordered from most nearly equal to the nephilim to
     least nearly equal. 
   * mermen - These were once a magically powerful people who used inheritances
     from the Dominions to transmute themselves to survive the great Flood. They
     failed to consider that they might not be able to undo their own spells,
     and the effects were not only permanent, but inherited. They have lost the
     use of most magics through successive generations of partial inheritance
     despite the odds. In their quest to regain their human form, some groups
     did make progress, hence non-magical peoples have mythology about merfolk
     looking like a more literally half man half fish.  Between wars between
     tribes and wars between merfolk and other peoples, only those most capable
     of living fully submerged have survived. While mentally and spiritually
     most nearly equal to the nephilim from whom they (distantly) descend, their
     extreme physical changes, and near entire loss of magic means that they
     have little ability to form more than the most rudimentary societies in
     their fully aquatic environments. 
   * dwarfs - I really dislike what Mrs. Rowling did with the dwarfs in _the
     Chamber of Secrets_.[^20210518-1]  Since she says that goblins of all
     things are expert craftsmen,[^20210518-2] my take is that nephil became
     dwarfs became goblins.  I will figure out something else for Lockhart's
     cupids if I ever get that far in writing. 
   * goblins - people who are highly susceptible to greed, envy, and wrath.
     Their form has been distorted by the sins of their forefathers centuries
     ago.  They are still capable of good deeds, and some have been so highly
     virtuous as to have actually reduced their susceptibility from the 90%
     maximum to a more manageable 60-70 (this represents the *best* of goblin
     families), but the physical changes wrought on them have become "mundane,"
     and are now governed by Mendelian inheritance.  Despite their flaws, these
     populations retained their intelligence and their magic. They are
     particularly strong inheritors from the Virtues, Powers, and Archangels,
     with lesser inheritances from the Principalities and angels.
   * hags - a people who are consumed by envy and lust.  Their sins robbed their
     ancestors of all they can now value. They have particularly strong
     inheritances from the Thrones, reasonable inheritances from the Virtues
     and Powers.  Some have partial inheritances of random other types.
   * centaurs - a nearly primordial people (inheriting from both the the
     Seraphim and Cherubim) who selfishly abused divination magic until
     something truly bizarre happened.  They became nearly immune to the magic
     of the Dominions as practices by other mortals, but almost entirely ruled
     by subconscious influences of the angelic and nephilim from the surrounding
     areas, both those fallen and those who remained faithful.  They are also
     incredibly sensitive to the state of balance between them and human society.
     Whenever society takes a turn for the worse, so do they, whenever the
     societies they live near turn towards God, the centaur populations become
     more friendly.  However, as they remain addicted to divination, they never
     reconcile with the peoples the reside near. Their form comes from the fact
     that in their dependence on divination, they (as a people) adopted a herd
     mentality, and in a 1% chance freak event of Divine Justice, their form
     came to, in part, match their mentality. 
   * veela - a people who are consumed by lust.  For the purposes of this story,
     veela are "dark" creatures[^20210126-4] that have some of the strongest
     inheritances from the Thrones of all humanoid magic users.  A
     "half-veela" is a veela/human or veela/nephil cross where either the veela
     nature was, against the odds, only partially inherited; or the 16% chance
     that the veela nature is inherited in addition to a full nephil
     inheritance.   The pure veela is not however a true example of a primordial
     people.  In reality, the veela race comes from a cross from a really really
     strong primordial nephil of the Thrones type, with a primordial nephil of
     the Dominions type whose partial inheritance of those abilities means that
     the veela can only transmute really small molecules.  As a race, the veela
     combined these abilities in acts of true depravity, giving way to unbridled
     lust, and using their abilities to transmute to create pheromones, and
     their abilities to force the will to go beyond sexual temptation to enslave
     those they had maddened with lust.   These were a fallen people who took
     their powers as a license to abuse those weaker than them.  In this case
     their cumulative chance of the "something bizarre" rendered their
     behaviour a racial genetic trait, but also created a cruel, and highly
     ironic trap. The first prong of the trap, the veela is, unlike most
     nephilim, noticeably not fully human.  All veela have an avian animagus form
     that they are only partially in control over.  Involuntary transformation
     to the avian form is common when the veela becomes angered.  The second
     prong of the trap, if a veela falls in love, his or her magic implodes in a
     particularly harsh, and entirely involuntary way.  The *veela's* magic will
     cause the beloved to exert an effect on the veela to the same (except
     obviously inverted) extent as if the veela were, not just using but
     *pushing* his/her abilities to affect someone else.[^20210408-2] Because
     the veela's own magic is doing this, the other person cannot stop affecting
     the veela. Combined with the weakened will power that comes with abuse of
     mind magics, the veela is ill equipped to turn off his or her own magic and
     so the slaver becomes enslaved. This remains true of the "half-veela." Like
     _[Maskirovat][knffnm]_ I am going to speculate that the pure veela's
     lifespan is shorter than a normal human's, and fertility has shifted such
     that female births outnumber male births (most male sperm are simply not
     viable and so fewer males are conceived). If the half-veela falls in the
     16% total of both, he or she will inherit the greater of the two lifespans;
     if the 14% partial from both, the average of the two lifespans; otherwise
     lifespan follows either being veela or not being veela. The animagus-like
     transformation into an avian form is the result of a second 1% chance like
     event that became dominant in the veela race and is now effectively a
     permanent trait of all who inherit any portion of the veela nature. 
   * giants - a people who are consumed by wrath and sloth.  They neither build
     nor have any true culture as a result.  They have lost the use of nearly
     all magics through successive generations of partial inheritance, despite
     the odds.  Like the goblins the physical changes wrought on them by sin
     have become "mundane" and are now governed by Mendelian inheritance.  
* Other "races" are not really people at all, they have varying levels of
  intelligence, but are all effectively the same as meeting different qualities
  of AI players, as if you were encountering cyborgs.  
   * trolls - created by the extreme use of magics on apes, the *most*
     intelligent trolls might be able to perform similarly to a human with
     mental retardation capable of living in a group home. This is not a fair
     comparison however, the human is suffering from a disability; the troll is
     performing with unusual *capability.*  
   * gnomes - created by the extreme use of magics on clay figures, these beings
     have no long term memory at all. 
   * fairies/pixies/doxies - created by the extreme use of magics on (different)
     insects, these beings appear humanoid, but still reproduce by laying eggs
     like insects.  Unlike gnomes, they have some ability to form long term
     memories, but only very limited ability to learn from these experiences;
     their actions are guided by incredibly strong instinct rather than by
     reasoning. They are very like domesticated cats and dogs in this respect;
     a dog might remember its owner, but its behaviours will always be more
     governed by instinct than not.
   * house elves - created by the extreme use of magics on an unknown mammal
     (not a human), they are the most nearly human of all created beings.  They
     are capable of learning, loyalty and betrayal, they have memories
     equivalent to ours.  They closely mimic having true free will, just as some
     human scientists speculate the highest animals do.  House elves were
     created with an innate *need* for *altruistic work*.  An idle elf will get
     sick and die.  Even levels of self-interest that would be normal and
     healthily in a human is also sufficient to cause a fatal illness in a house
     elf. Thus while they need not be magically bound to servitude as is
     traditional, they can at best be in an underpaid servant's position.  When
     bound, and elf can "feed" on the bond, using its master's magic to amplify
     its own. 
   
[[!inline pages="title(Harry Potter - Nephilim:*)"
  archive=yes
  feedonly=yes
  reverse=yes
  sort="title_natural path_natural"
  trail=yes
]]
[[!trailoptions sort="meta(title)" circular="yes"]]
[[!trailitem Prologue]]

[^20210518-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_
    Better citation needed.

[^20210518-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable
    Guide_ p. 69. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[knffnm]: <kokopelli.nsns.fanficauthors.net/Maskirovat/Maskirovat/>

[WP1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/

[WP2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/

[WP3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/

[MW]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Many_Waters

[^20201209-1]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).  [Nephilim](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nephilim) Last edited 2020-12-06.  

[^20201209-2]: [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).  [Heterosis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heterosis) Last edited 2020-12-01. 

[^20210408-2]: Anyone who has read Jeconais' story
    _[Hope](https://jeconais.fanficauthors.net/Hope/index/)_ will recognise this
    concept.  I have not copied it precisely as he came up with it, my version is
    less voluntary, and does not include the death inducing madness, nor the bond
    aspect. 

[^20210126-4]: Yanna N.
    "[Veelas – What Exactly Are The Slavic Seductresses From Harry Potter?](https://www.slavorum.org/veelas-what-exactly-are-the-slavic-seductresses-from-harry-potter/)"
    [The Official Slavorum](https://www.slavorum.org/) Last Viewed 2020-07-07.

[^20210408-1]: Mr. C. S. Lewis. _The Screwtape Letters_. pp. 120-121. Copyright 1942. HarperOne. Kindle Edition. 

