Fleamont Potter
[[!table header=yes data="""
Type|Value|
Seraphim|7|
Cherubim|8|
Thrones|8|
Dominions|4|
Virtues|8|
Powers|7|
Principalities|6|
Archangels|9|
Angels|6|
"""]]
Fleamont was an incredible duellist and a good potioneer. 

Euphemia Potter
[[!table header=yes data="""
Type|Value|
Seraphim|9|
Cherubim|1|
Thrones|10|
Dominions|10|
Virtues|2|
Powers|9|
Principalities|10|
Archangels|9|
Angels|6|
"""]]
We have no canonical background information on Euphemia except for the fact that
she was either a pureblood or a halfblood.  Thus, I have moulded her to fit what
I envision James to be.  She is an incredibly eclectic mix of highs and lows, in
terms of ability.  I imagine, given how interconnected the wizarding world is,
that no matter her personal beliefs, in her background, several ancestors have
abused magics that compel the will, compulsions, imperious, confundus, and
similar.  This has boosted her inheritance from the Thrones.  I further suspect
she is related to the creators of one of the humaniform "races" of
pseudo-sentient beings.  Such a massive violation of the natural order might
well have boosted the Dominions inheritance to the point that it has yet to
degrade even generations later.  In short, she comes from a "darker" family,
but, like Sirius, has rejected that past.

James Potter: 14% chance of a partial inheritance from both parents. 
[[!table header=yes data="""
Type|Father|Mother|Inherited|
Seraphim|7|9|8|
Cherubim|8|1|4|
Thrones|8|10|9|
Dominions|4|10|10|
Virtues|8|2|5|
Powers|7|9|9|
Principalities|6|10|8|
Archangels|9|9|9|
Angels|6|6|6|
"""]]
James really should not have existed at all.  He was born, per cannon, after his
parents were already old. In many ways he inherited the average of both parents,
but in keeping with the above, I am saying that the inheritance from the
Dominions is too strongly "programmed" to degrade.  

Harry Potter: 14% chance of a partial inheritance from both parents, 
[[!table header=yes data="""
Type|Father|Mother|inherited|
Seraphim|8|7|8|
Cherubim|4|7|6|
Thrones|9|8|9|
Dominions|10|6|8|
Virtues|5|9|7|
Powers|9|6|8|
Principalities|8|9|9|
Archangels|9|6|9|
Angels|6|8|8|
"""]]    

Harry is, as you can see, slightly above an average of his parents except in a
couple of key categories where he straight up inherited the more powerful
ability.  As the child of two exceptionally powerful parents, even a partial
inheritance can still result in someone really really powerful. We are finally
far enough away from whenever in time the Dominions were abused that this
ability can degrade.  

If you compare Harry to [[Riddle]], you will see that really Harry is a much
more balanced wizard, he has neither the highs nor the lows that Riddle has
(though neither is an especially strong Cherubim).  The one place that Harry
shines that Riddle does not is the Principalities - population effects.  This is
probably counter-intuitive.  Riddle works by intimidation, and while you *can*
intimidate populations, that is not actually what he does.  Instead he creates
atrocities, and allows his *actions* to act on the populace.  Remember that the
population effects from the Principalities are tied to locations, thus Harry is
unconsciously enhancing his environment with magics that affect the people
around him.  However, he will not find out that is happening until he has
travelled far enough to see what it looks like when people are *not* affected by
this magic. 
