[[!meta title="magic in a Potterverse/Many Waters crossover"]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]

[[!toc levels=2 startlevel=3]]

### Overall Rules

#### power levels

Nephil can be rated on a scale of 1 (low) to 10 (high) for access to each class
of angelic abilities. This naturally means that for many of the pivotal
characters, I have [[mathematical notes on their power levels|power_chart]].  For the purposes of this work:

| Power Level | Ability Estimate |
| :---------: | :-------------- |
| 1           | * some single weak ability within this category
|             | * no conscious control |
| 2           | either: 
|             | * multiple barely detectable abilities 
|             | * conscious control of a single weak ability |
| 3           | able to manipulate this category of magic with great difficulty 
| 4           | * able to achieve minimally acceptable levels of competence in this category of magic 
|             | * if some OWL test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the P range. |
| 5           | * expected to achieve acceptable levels of proficiency in this category of magic 
|             | * if some OWL test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the A range. |
| 6           | * expected to be capable of more advanced learning in this category of magic. 
|             | * if some OWL test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the E range. 
|             | * if some NEWT test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the A range. |
| 7           | * expected to be capable of doing well in an advanced course on this category of magic. 
|             | * if some OWL test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the O range. 
|             | * if some NEWT test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the E range. 
|             | * possibly capable of learning magics in this category beyond NEWT level. |
| 8           | * expected to be capable of doing well in an advanced course on this category of magic. 
|             | * if some OWL test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the O range. 
|             | * if some NEWT test depended solely on this category of magic, expect to score in the O range. 
|             | * capable of learning magics in this category beyond NEWT level. |
| 9           | * expected to learn OWL and NEWT level magics with relative ease. 
|             | * expected to learn magics beyond the NEWT level in this category of magic. 
|             | * instinctual (unconscious) use of magic in this category is extremely common. | 
| 10          | learning this category of magic is more about finding out what is possible and fine-tuning abilities you already have. |

#### abilities by type

I have categorised each classical type of angel as having originally created a
different type of nephil, which in my notes I call "primordial nephil."  My
intention, however, is that these types are not different species, but rather
more like having different traits that can be independently inherited.  A nephil
can possibly inherit the following:
* From the Seraphim, the ability to perceive the heart.  When used on other
  nephil, this allows access to information about the person's physical state,
  their will, and their memories.  When used on humans, it allows only access to
  information about the person's physical state.  However, an astute judge of
  human nature can combine this with situational awareness, historical
  information about the person, body language, and similar data to make highly
  accurate guesses. 
* From the Cherubim, the ability to perceive/detect what has been done with
  magic, and what is possible with it. 
* From the Thrones, the ability to bind the will of other nephilim.  For the
  purposes of this story, and *unlike cannon Harry Potter*, this ability has
  marginal *at best* affect on full humans. Things like the imperious curse or
  the confundus charm fit in here.  
* From the Dominions, the ability to transmute the form, but not the substance,
  of one thing to another.  This will be temporary unless the change is "locked"
  in place through combining this ability with that inherited from the Powers.
  Neither alone can make a transmutation permanent.  That is, the Powers cannot
  retroactively make a transmutation permanent, it must be done *as the change
  is made, by the same nephil*. 
* From the Virtues the ability to temporarily augment the nature of the natural
  world. Things like animation charms fit here. The other thing that fits here
  is that when a nephil who inherits from the Virtues handles certain raw
  materials (potions ingredients), these become "charged" with extra properties.
  This is a deviation from Mrs. Rowling's explanation for potions. 
* From the Powers, temporary & localised manipulation of the laws of physics and
  chemistry. 
* From the Principalities, the ability to create area effects on populations
  (unplottable, "muggle repelling", so on). This differs from the Thrones in
  that the gifts from the Thrones affect individuals regardless of location.
  The gifts from the Principalities affect whoever, full human or nephil, is in
  the right location to be affected, and no one who is not in relationship to
  that location.  Your ability to see into a place, remember a place, stay near
  a place, so on. 
* From the Archangels, offensive magics (recall that the nephilim come from
  fallen angels, so some of these offensive magics are corrupted and should not
  be used).  Now yes, all sorts of magic can be used to harm someone.  That is
  not what I mean.  I mean magics that have no other use. 
* From the angels, defensive magics (these can also be corrupted to the point of
  being dangerous to the user).  

#### mapping to Harry Potter

Harry Potter cannon breaks magic down into: 
* charms - generally a mix of inheritance from Virtues and Powers for the lower
  years, however
  - things like "cheering charms" are _actually_ a form of transmutation
    manipulating the form of brain chemicals, and thus, temporarily, their
    effect. 
  - memory charms like obliviation are a mix of transmutation on brain chemicals
    with the Seraphic ability to perceive (and thus target the transmutation
    really precisely). Because they are chemical in nature, they can work on full
    humans.  However, they can be more precisely targeted and more finely
    crafted/tuned when used against a nephil.  Thus you can make a human forget,
    say, the last hour, or the last day; you can make a nephil forget that a
    single person was present while otherwise remembering the event. 
  - Imperious curse acts differently on humans and nephil. Using the imperious
    curse on a human will require "operating" that human line you would a puppet
    or a remote control robot, while using it on a nephil acts more like what
    you see in the Harry Potter books, where you can give a command and the
    victim's own mind will assist in finding ways to carry out the order. 
  - Confundus type charms only work well on nephil, because they extend memory
    charms by depending on abilities inherited from Thrones. When used on a
    human, this charm interferes with the ability to form a long term memory,
    and the ability to retrieve long term memories, both for the duration of the
    charm, and it causes the various chemicals in the brain to surge.  So humans
    will tend to end up all sorts of confused, but without the fine grained
    control over what they are confused about, or what they think is actually
    happening that you can achieve with a nephil.  Note that not all nephil are
    *aware* of the difference in affect here. 
* transfiguration comes primarily from the Dominions, but is highly temporary
  unless you use abilities from the Virtues to augment reality to make a
  permanent change possible *as you make the change*. 
* conjuring requires inheritance from the Powers, as you are in essence
  manipulating quantum probabilities.  Unlike the standard Harry Potter,
  conjuration will tend to be permanent.
* Vanishing, though considered transfiguration, comes from the Powers, it is a
  form of dissolving something.  Because it is explained so poorly, students new
  to the practice will often actually attempt to modify the thing being
  vanished, resulting in transparent versions instead of something that has, to
  paraphrase McGonagall, gone into everything.
* Potions are complicated.   The magic comes in part from the brewer (primarily
  from the Virtues), and in part from the ingredients (different ingredients
  will react to your magical influence in different ways).  No two nephil will
  affect ingredients precisely the same way; similarly no two instances of the
  same ingredient are actually precisely the same.  A strong ability inherited
  from the Cherubim will make you more able to discern the effects of the
  ingredients, including between instances of supposedly identical ingredients.
  Thus the best potioneers strongly inherit from both the Cherubim and Virtues.
  Some potions additionally require chemical reactions not possible in nature,
  this requires the potioneer to have abilities in the Powers space as well.
  Lastly, if a potion is to be stored, rather than used immediately, the effects
  must be locked in place *at the time of creation* by mixing in some magic from
  the Dominions. Potions is a wandless art, though some traditions *do* use
  incantations as part of the process the potioneer trigger their magic.
  Hogwarts teaches potions in its hardest form: both wandless and silent,
  requiring near instinctual use of effectively three to four forms of magic
  simultaneously.  The nephil must use abilities inherited from the Virtues to
  augment the ingredients with additional properties, locking the augmentation
  in place using the transformative powers from the Dominions.  As this highly
  personal process will result in something slightly different from nephil to
  nephil, he/she must use abilities from the Cherubim to pick precisely the
  ingredients affected by his/her magic to precisely the right degree and in
  precisely the right way.  Should the ingredients not want to mix, the nephil
  then uses abilities inherited from the Powers to manipulate the laws of
  chemistry to make the reaction possible. The different ways and patterns of
  stirring are essentially mental triggers to help the nephil activate this
  chemical magic from the Powers.  This means that a potion recipe is more of a
  suggestion than a true recipe, the best will always come from deviating from
  the recipe by *just the right amount* to account for your personal magic and
  the specific ingredients you happen to be using in this particular instance. 
* Runes are also complicated.  Runes are _created_ from powers inherited from
  the Virtues, you augment reality to give your writing not just meaning, but
  power.  They are, however, *powered* by the inheritance related to the effect
  of the runes in question.  Thus two people equally skilled at creating runes
  might not be equally skilled at powering those runes, or vice versa. This is
  also a deviation from the cannon Harry Potter universe.  Runes can also be
  created to *absorb* power from the surrounding area to power connected
  sequences of runes, using abilities inherited from the Principalities.  This
  in practice reduces the effect of any attempt to use other powers in any way
  not connected to that rune sequence.  For a school like Hogwarts, it would be
  safer to practice your magic because the effect of each spell would be
  lessened.  The Hospital Wing would need to be shielded from most of the runes
  protecting the rest of the castle to ensure that you could still be cured
  using magic at full efficacy.  Overall, this effect would bluster Hogwart's
  reputation for being one of the safest places in Britain. 
* divination has two categories. 
  - prophesy is a morally suspect magic.  I am going to go with Biblical
    theology here; in divination the nephil knowingly or unknowingly
    communicates with fallen angels.  If they ever tell anything truthful, it is
    only because they judge it useful to lead us further into sin. Thus most
    prophesies are misleading, false, or both.  This fits well with what Mrs.
    Rowling writes in her original FAQ when she compared her series' prophecy to
    the one from _Macbeth_.[^20210902-5] 
  - Users particularly skilled in the abilities from the Seraphim may be able to
    use these abilities to make incredibly accurate predictions about people
    without crossing any lines.  Knowing that someone is clumsy from their
    memories, knowing that someone is afraid from their emotions, the user can
    predict some short term events and reactions in ways that might seem like
    divination.  Practices like palm reading, tea leaves, and crystal gazing
    grew from this magical insight into people.
  - There is some crossover between the two, generally to the detriment of both
    the user and any understanding of the truth. 
  - Users of the first form make future generations more susceptible to magics
    inherited from the Seraphim and Thrones (for four generations per my rules
    on nephil inheritance).  So while in general someone strong in the Thrones
    could normally resist the imperious curse, if they come from a family
    steeped in the use of divination, then he/she personally will be abnormally
    susceptible to this magic. 
* Arithmancy has a Wikipedia definition as being a speciality of divination.
  For my purposes this is _almost_ true.  For my purposes Arithmancy attempts to
  predict the effect of a use of magic.  It attempts to make magic scientific.
  However, it is complicated by the fact that its practitioners themselves do
  not actually understand the scientific method, nor agree on which mathematical
  system(s) they are using to do this in.  The field is dominated by people with
  only the vaguest idea of what the mundane world has done with either numbers
  or science in the past 200 years. 
* Legilimency - requires both an inheritance from the Seraphim and the Thrones,
  for this work it comes in 3 phases. 
  - Passively, it is solely from the Seraphim, and is morally neutral. This will
    tell you a target's emotional state (anything related to brain chemistry),
    whether or not the person is telling the truth (again based on brain
    chemistry and things like pulse rates, but done automatically for you by the
    magic), energy level/alertness, and other purely physical things but _not_
    about the person's actual thoughts or memories. A really skilled user may be
    able to infer thoughts from a however with a fair degree of accuracy. 
  - Communicatively, it adds in abilities from the Thrones, forcing the
    recipient to hear your thoughts. This is a bit of a grey area morally. 
  - Actively, you force the victim to reveal their memories, implant memories,
    or manipulate emotional states.  For some unknown reason, unless the target
    has at least some magic, you will be unable to do more than manipulate
    emotional states.  This manipulation goes beyond the simple transmutation of
    brain chemicals, it actually causes the brain to release the appropriate
    chemicals as if naturally in that emotional state. All active legilimency is
    morally repugnant, and comes at a magical cost.  Excessive use of this form
    of legilimency will have bizarre effects.  The effects may be physical,
    spiritual, mental, or any combination thereof. Per the above, what
    constitutes "excessive" has not been quantified.  To the extent that the use
    is not just excessive but also malicious and/or selfish (as opposed to
    defensive) in nature, the effects will not only be bizarre but hereditary,
    *and* will be coupled with reduced will-power in subsequent generations as
    is described in the section of magical inheritance for magics requiring
    emotional content. 
* Occlumency - the magical suppression of emotion and with that access to
  thoughts comes at a similar moral and magical cost to active legilimency. This
  will require inheritance from the Cherubim (for targeting), the Dominions (for
  transmuting brain chemicals), and the Seraphim (dealing with the non-material
  parts of men/nephil).  Lacking *any* of these will basically mean you are not
  going to succeed at Occlumency.  This story will offer magical defences to
  legilimency besides that of occlumency.

[^20210902-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[What is the significance of Neville being the other boy to whom the prophecy might have 
    referred?](https://therowlinglibrary.com/jkrowling.com/textonly/en/faq_view_id=84.html)"
    Last Viewed: 2021-09-02.


### Magical Inheritance: 

Since I need non-Mendelian inheritance to explain both magical creatures and the
nephilim themselves, I am going to set some rules.  These are primarily for the
nephilim, the inheritance for magical creatures may follow modified versions of
these rules depending on exactly how the creature in question came to exist.
These rules are hierarchical, that is you need to apply the rules in order to
determine what happens to a given child. 

1. Children born of at least one magical parent have a 80% chance of following
   these rules, and a 20% chance of following purely human inheritance patterns,
   which I will refer to as Mendelian genetics for simplicity.  If they follow
   Mendelian genetics, any magical abilities will tend to degrade with each
   generation that follows Mendelian genetics. In other words, they will become
   more and more normal, more and more in line with the way the world would have
   worked without disruption or intervention.  
1. Children not following Mendelian genetics will have a 80% chance of still
   following Mendelian for traits not influenced by the deviation that
   distinguishes them from the mundane (in the nephilim this includes height,
   skin tone, hair colour, eye colour, so on). 
1. For every generation that a mundane trait *does not* follow Mendelian
   genetics, the odds that the next generation also will not increases by 10%.
   Thus things like Weasley red hair (many generations), or Potter hair (at
   least 3 generations) start to become non-mundane traits.
1. For non-mundane traits, a male child will have (a female child has similar
   numbers, but switch father/mother). This is computed *per trait*. 
    * a 50% chance of inheriting solely from his father, 
    * a 16% chance of inheriting the sum total of both parents, 
    * a 14% chance of a partial inheritance from both parents,
    * a 7.5% chance of a partial inheritance from just his father, 
    * a 7% chance of inheriting solely from his mother, 
    * a 4% chance of a partial inheritance from just his mother,
    * a 1% chance of something truly bizarre happening
    * a 0.5% chance of becoming mundane,
   Originally, centuries in the past, people tended to be highly specialised
   into one of these.  If you inherited an angelic nature as a single unit,
   there would be a 30% chance of a child mixing the magical/angelic heritage of
   his/her parents.  Since instead my thought is that each is an independent
   trait, each of which has a 30% chance, mixing is pretty much guaranteed to
   happen fairly rapidly.  In practice, in the modern era, every child invited
   to a magical school has a reasonably mixed heritage, though the precise
   values 1-10 for each category differ significantly from child to child. 
1. Recall that I said that magic can be inherently corrupting.  Magic that is
   corrupting not only affects the user, but his/her descendants, four
   generations out.  All magic that *requires* an emotional content
   (unforgivables require hatred, the patronus requires positive emotions, so
   on) fits in this category. 
   - by corrupting, I do not necessarily mean that it tends the user towards
     evil, I mean that it tends to change (corrupt) the nature of the user.  
   - magic where the required emotion closely aligns with one or more of the
     seven deadly signs tends to corrupt the user more severely and more rapidly
     (both) than magic where the required emotion is either neutral or closely
     aligns with a virtue.  
   - Only magic that *requires* emotion tends to have very low, very real
     thresholds.  Magic that is merely *affected* by the user's emotions tends
     to allow for greater ranges of use without hitting thresholds.
   - It is theoretically possible, but in practice highly unlikely, that the
     changes induced by different magics requiring opposing emotional contexts
     might cancel each other out.
   - While all emotional magic falls in this category of corrupting the user,
     there are other classes of magic that do as well. 
   - Use of a corrupting magic sufficient to reach a change threshold frequently
     predisposes the next generation to be susceptible to either that type of
     magic, the type of emotions that are required for that magic, or both, by 10%
     _per ancestor_.  That is, the next generation has *stronger concupiscence*
     and in fact *less free will.* 
   - The thresholds involved for each kind of magic are very poorly researched
     and not at all understood. 
   - As stated elsewhere, this effect lasts for four generations. 
   - If the total effect exceeds 90% (at 100% you would have no free will), then
     the odds off something bizarre happening goes up by one percent for every
     10% of difference.  
     * So if for example all of your progenitors on both sizes excessively used
       the killing curse, you would be susceptible to hatred (anger) by 300%
       base.  Since the total effect cannot remove your free will, the actual
       effect is more complicated.  Your great-grandparents each had a 20% boost
       (10% from each of their parents).  Your grandparents inherited that 20%
       boost *from both sides* and *in addition* a 10% boost because of each
       great-grandparent's own personal abuse of magic, yielding a 60% boost to
       your grandparent's experience of angry emotions, and a corresponding
       decrease in their ability to choose not to act on these emotions.  Your
       parents were the first generation to exceed 90%: a 60% remote
       inheritance, plus a 10% immediate inheritance, from each parent, for a
       total of 140%.  This is reduced to 90%, but the chance of something
       bizarre is increased by 5%.  You then get the 90% anger *and* the 5%
       bizarre factors as your remote inheritance, *plus* the 10% anger boost
       from *your parent's* personal abuse of magic (again from each parent).
       This puts your total anger boost at 180%, which is again reduced to 90%,
       but causes an additional boost on the chance of the bizarre, this time by
       9%.  This gets added to the 5% from the remote inheritance, for a total
       chance of something bizarre happening to you at 19% over the base rate
       (5% from each parent plus 9% from 180 being 9*10 over 90).  One in five
       children in such a scenario would have something totally inexplicable
       happen to them magically, physically, or both as they are conceived,
       gestated and born.
     * Inbreeding would make the above worse, as some progenitors would be
       counted  multiple times over.
     * Thus someone like Draco Malfoy actually does have tremendous trouble
       controlling his instinctual behaviour in many ways. Judged by human
       standards, he is mentally crippled, with severely damaged executive
       function, particularly in the areas of impulse control, aggression, and
       judgement. 
1. Harry Potter talks about two classes that require special mention, squibs and
   muggle born.  They are effectively inverse of each other. 
   * A true squib is the child who resulted from the 0.5% chance of becoming
     mundane.  Such a child is fully human, and no "muggle-born" will ever
     descend from such a child.
   * It is possible for a child receiving a partial inheritance from his or her
     parent(s) to have very low power.  
     - A child with a power level of 2 or below on all categories will be called
       a squib.  
     - A child with 3 or below on all categories will not be invited to any
       magical school, but might be able to effectively use some magic.  A
       program like Kwick Spell might prey on such people.  
     - Hogwarts requires at least a 4 in each of the following categories:
       Dominions, Virtues, and Powers; at least a 4 in *one* of Archangels or
       angels and at least a 3 in the other; and at least a 3 in each of
       Cherubim and Principalities.  
   * Because it is possible (16% chance) for the parents' abilities to
     recombine, these "squibs" who are actually extremely low powered nephilim,
     can eventually produce higher powered children.  These children will
     *generally* be low powered (a mix of 3s, 4s and 5s in the various
     categories).  However, sometimes (base rate of a 1% chance) the something
     bizarre increases the child's ability beyond expectations. 
   * This partially explains some of the bias against these "first generation"
     magical users.  Not only are they new to a xenophobic culture, but marrying
     them *generally* creates a risk of low powered children.  With this
     background, being of "pure" blood is basically ignoring the 19.5% chance of
     being under powered as compared to your parents. Illogical, but considering
     other human prejudices, not unreasonable. 
   * Per the the above, it is possible for a pure human to gain magic through
     the union with a fallen angel.  In practice, this has not happened in
     centuries, but magical society remembers adults suddenly having magic where
     none had been present before.  From this comes stories of magic being
     "stolen."  This is not true of course, no one lost the magic the witch
     gained from her unholy union, but most magic users do not believe in
     angels, much less fallen angels, and have a strong distrust for the Church.

#### Specifically human/nephil 

* "Standard" nephilim seem more or less humans with extra abilities, but this is
  not really true. If you consider creation as a hierarchy, humanity has always
  occupied a messy place - top of the material creation, bottom of the spiritual
  order, but destined, through grace, not merit, to be raised above its (our)
  natural place.  Introducing the nephilim in this fictional world, I am putting
  the nephilim as being an unnatural hybrid of two things God created. In making
  this hybrid, something of each was lost. They are thus *slightly* lesser than
  humans. Despite having greater capabilities in some ways, they have deficits
  in others, most notably, they are overall *less free.*  Their choices are
  often constrained in ways that are not externally apparent, things that would
  be temptations to a human can be overriding compulsions to a nephil, and they
  are vulnerable to each other (and to others who can use similar powers) in
  ways that humans are not. 
* Per the above, it takes approximately six consecutive generations of magical
  abuse for "truly bizarre" things to become not just possible but probable.
   * Recall the note from the [[Introduction|Harry_Potter_-_Nephilim]] on _The
     Screwtape Letters_. 
   * Building on what I wrote above comparing "standard humans" to nephil,
     beings in these categories are even more corrupted by the combination of
     sin and the inherent weakness of being of a race that was made, and not
     created. For lack of of a better word, they are more nearly animals, they
     *do* have immortal souls, but, to differing degrees (depending on species)
     lack even more of the free will that is already impaired in the nephilim. 
     This list is essentially ordered from most nearly equal to the nephilim to
     least nearly equal. 
   * mermen - These were once a magically powerful people who used inheritances
     from the Dominions to transmute themselves to survive the great Flood.
     Magic in this category is generally very short lived, so over the course of
     the great Flood, they used an *incredible* amount of it.  As the flood
     ended, a Screwtape event happened, and they found themselves unable to undo
     their own spells: the effects were not only permanent, but inherited. They
     have lost the use of most magics through successive generations of partial
     inheritance despite the odds. In their quest to regain their human form,
     some groups did make progress, hence non-magical peoples have mythology
     about merfolk looking like a more literally half man half fish.  Between
     wars between tribes and wars between merfolk and other peoples, only those
     most capable of living fully submerged have survived. While mentally and
     spiritually most nearly equal to the nephilim from whom they (distantly)
     descend, their extreme physical changes, and near entire loss of magic
     means that they have little ability to form more than the most rudimentary
     societies in their fully aquatic environments. 
   * dwarfs - I really dislike what Mrs. Rowling did with the dwarfs in _the
     Chamber of Secrets_.[^20210518-1]  Since she says that goblins of all
     things are expert craftsmen,[^20210518-2] my take is that nephil became
     dwarfs which in turn became goblins.  I will figure out something else for
     Lockhart's cupids if I ever get that far in writing. 
   * goblins - people who are highly susceptible to greed, envy, and wrath.
     Their form has been distorted by the sins of their forefathers centuries
     ago.  Once, they would have ranked in this list below the veela.  However,
     they are still capable of good deeds, and some have been so highly
     virtuous as to have actually reduced their susceptibility from the 90%
     maximum to a more manageable 60-70%, but the physical changes wrought on
     them have become "mundane," and are now governed by Mendelian inheritance.
     Despite their flaws, these populations retained their intelligence and
     their magic. They are particularly strong inheritors from the Virtues,
     Powers, and Archangels, with lesser inheritances from the Principalities
     and angels.  It is suspected that the earliest goblins may have been
     responsible for the creation of the trolls, however, the proof (or
     disproof) of this has been lost to reliable history.  If so, this explains
     why they were punished so harshly (as to have originally lost nearly all
     free will - 90% impact).  
   * hags - a people who are consumed by envy and lust.  Their sins robbed their
     ancestors of all they can now value. They have particularly strong
     inheritances from the Thrones, reasonable inheritances from the Virtues
     and Powers.  Some have partial inheritances of random other types.
   * centaurs - a nearly primordial people (inheriting from both the the
     Seraphim and Cherubim) who, not just as individuals, but as a people,
     selfishly abused divination magic until something truly bizarre happened. 
     - Their form transmuted to a half animal form to reflect the fact that
       their free will is nearly gone.  They now have a herd instinct that rules
       much of their behaviour.
     - They became nearly immune to the magic of the Thrones as practices by
       other mortals.  It is next to impossible to confound or imperious a
       centaur for example. 
     - Despite the above, they are almost entirely ruled by subconscious
       influences of the angelic and nephilim from the surrounding areas, both
       those fallen and those who remained faithful. Whenever the societies
       around them take a turn for the worse, so do they, whenever the societies
       they live near turn towards God, the centaur populations become more
       friendly. 
     - they remain addicted to divination, as such they perpetuate these effects
       to the next generation endlessly.  
     - the ranking in this list between centaur and veela is debatable.  Any
       single centaur is probably less free than any single veela, but as a
       herd, centaurs are capable of slightly more autonomy than pure veela are
       either as individuals or in groups (since veela have no herd, or in their
       case flock, effect).  
   * veela - For the purposes of this story, veela are "dark"
     creatures[^20210126-4].  I have chosen to create a version of veela that
     justifies the suspicion that [[Molly]], [[Hermione]] and [[Ginny]] view
     [[Fleur]] with.  Veela have some of the strongest inheritances from
     the Thrones of all humanoid magic users.  A "half-veela" is a veela/human
     or veela/nephil cross where either the veela nature was, against the odds,
     only partially inherited; or the 16% chance that the veela nature is
     inherited in addition to a full nephil inheritance.   The pure veela is not
     an example of a primordial  people.  Rather,the veela race comes from an
     example of true perfidy. Genetically the first veela's parents were a
     cross from a really really strong primordial nephil of the Thrones type,
     with a primordial nephil of the Dominions type on one side, and a primordial
     nephil of the Powers type on the other.  This child grew up into a young
     woman who viewed the men around her as easily manipulated means to her
     ends.  She used her abilities to inflame their desires and bind their
     wills, with little regard for not only the men, but also the impact on the
     families they came from.  She was also responsible for the creation of
     doxies and fairies, a crime so great that she was cursed with a Screwtape
     style mutation of epic proportions:
     - All veela are female, a male child of a veela will inherit solely from
       the child's father in terms of magic. 
     - Her concupiscence was vastly increased. A full veela has perhaps 20% of
       the ability to go against her instincts that a full human does.  A
       half-veela will generally have much more free will, divine providence
       generally ensures that a being that is not bound by the limits here
       described for full veela inherits her father's self control.  
     - Her form was changed to shift to that of a bird's any time her wrath,
       sloth, greed, or gluttony exceed her (incredibly minimal) control over
       them.  What type of bird she most resembles seems to vary from veela
       community to veela community.
     - Her inheritance from the Dominions was restricted
       * in human form she *always* produces pheromones.  She cannot *not*
         produce them, though with considerable effort she can control *how
         much* she produces. 
       * in avian form, she can *only* produce a form of naphtha that catches
         fire instantly when exposed to oxygen, though fortunately (for
         everyone else) she has *some* control over this (unlike the
         pheromones). Extreme lack of repentance for her behaviour caused it to
         get locked in place as a perpetual temptation for her, and her
         decedents, to fight hopelessly against.  Remember, nephilim are more
         like angels in that their choices can have permanent repercussions. 
       * she can transmute herself between forms, but as implied above, her
         shift is not under direct conscious control, but is rather tied to her
         (incredibly limited) ability to control herself.  Some full veela spend
         nearly their entire lives as a bird.
     - Her inheritance from the Powers was restricted such that it *cannot*
       combine with her inheritance from the Dominions.  No full veela is
       capable of permanent transmutation, and a "half-veela" is capable of it
       only to the extent her male parent was. 
     - Her lifespan was reduced to half that of a full human's.[^20210916-1]
       A half-veela has a 16% chance of inheriting the greater of the two
       lifespans (her father's and her mother's), a 14% chance of inheriting the
       average of the two lifespans, and a 70% chance of simply being either
       veela (with a veela's lifespan) or not being veela (with the lifespan of
       whatever her father is, either a nephil or a human or whatever).  
     - Her fertility was shifted such her body is sufficiently actively hostile
       to male sperm that female births outnumber male births by at least three
       to one.  This is generally true of female half-veela as well. 
     - Her physical maturation is human like from age zero to the onset of
       puberty, but then becomes more rapid like that of a bird's until she
       reaches full physical maturity.  How fast this is depends on which veela
       community she comes from.  More eagle-like veela generally finish
       maturing by thirteen.  More hawk-like veela will rapidly mature over the
       course of a few days.  Her *mental* maturation is not accelerated
       during this time of accelerated physical growth, putting a mentally young
       girl in an adult's body for a period of years (with all the extra self
       control issues adding adult hormone levels to that lack of mental
       maturity would imply).  This is generally proportionately true of a
       half-veela (average normal human growth with that typical of her veela
       community).  
     - If a veela falls in love, her pheromone ability inverts, instead of
       producing pheromones that bewitch others, she produces pheromones that
       perfectly mimic those produced by the person she has fallen in love with.
       Combined with her weakened will power (see above), she is very poorly
       equipped to control the production of these pheromones, causing her own
       magic to essentially enslave her to the one she loves. This remains true
       of the "half-veela."[^20210916-2]  This is the punishment for giving in
       to the temptation of her locked powers. 
   * giants - Like the goblins the physical changes wrought on them by sin have
     become "mundane" and are now governed by Mendelian inheritance.  Church
     records show that the giants come from the creators of the house  elves.
     The family that first created house elves were punished with these, for
     lack of a better word, gigantic forms.  Just as house elves are the most
     successfully mockery of man, so too was nearly everything taken from their
     creators - their forms are too clumsy to use most tools, their intellects
     too clouded to appreciate literature or indeed even much in the  way of
     rational discourse.  Their magic was stripped from them except for that
     which is required to keep these unnatural forms alive, and, to ensure that
     those who profited from the house elves did not rescue them from their
     punishment, an unconscious use of magic in their skins that acts as a shield
     protecting them from all external magic - thus locking them in their new forms.  
     Behold in them what man would be if left without his mind, the only hope
     they have is that their intellects are so clouded that it is nearly
     impossible for them to actually commit a mortal sin.  Should any be willing
     to be missionary to the giants, the grace of baptism would be nearly
     unopposed, because these beings have so little ability to freely choose to
     do anything, and even less ability to understand something is gravely wrong.  

[^20210916-1]: Like in _[Maskirovat][knffnm]_. 

[^20210916-2]: This idea resembles that from Jeconais'
    _[Hope](https://jeconais.fanficauthors.net/Hope)_
    Last Updated: 2007-05-30. Last Viewed: 2021-09-16. 
    I have not copied it precisely as he came up with it, my version is
    less voluntary, and does not include the death inducing madness, nor the bond
    aspect. 

### Other Races

Other "races" are not really people at all, they have varying levels of
intelligence, but are all effectively the same as meeting different qualities of
AI players, as if you were encountering cyborgs.  

The creation of these "races" is an abomination, and the more nearly human, or
in other words the more perfectly the simulate free will, the greater the
abomination.  This will definitely have had *Screwtape* style bizarre on the
perpetrators of these crimes against creation and their descendants.  This is
true because of the moral confusion it causes - these "races" do not have
immortal souls the way humans, angels, nephil, or the nephil descended races do,
and yet they appear as if they should.  It is true because their creation mocks
the creation of man.  And lastly, it is true because their creation,
particularly that of the house elves and the trolls, has created groups that
exist at odds with true charity: in the case of the trolls a "race" that cannot
rise above rage, and in the case of the house elves a "race" that can never be
fully freed.  

* Acromantula - created from spiders (obviously) by an unknown nephil or group
  of nephilim.  Acromantula are capable of learning human speech, but do not
  speak anything that could be defined as a language in the wild.[^20210916-3]
* Bowtruckle - created by the extreme use of magics on tree branches by an
  unknown agency (may be directly demonic). 
* fairies/imps/doxies - created by the extreme use of magics on (different)
  insects, these beings appear humanoid, but still reproduce by laying eggs like
  insects.  Unlike gnomes, they have some ability to form long term memories,
  but only very limited ability to learn from these experiences; their actions
  are guided by incredibly strong instinct rather than by reasoning. They are
  very like domesticated cats and dogs in this respect; a dog might remember its
  owner, but its behaviours will always be more governed by instinct than not.
  It is known that fairies and doxies were created by the woman who became the
  first veela.  It is unknown who first created imps. 
* ghoul - unknown origin. Often treated as a pet.[^20210916-4]
* gnomes - created by the extreme use of magics on clay figures, these beings
  have no long term memory at all.  It is unknown who created these.  
* house elves - created by the extreme use of magics on an unknown mammal (not a
  human), they are the most nearly human of all created beings.  They are
  capable of learning, loyalty and betrayal; they have memories equivalent to
  ours.  They closely mimic having true free will, just as some human scientists
  speculate the highest animals do.  House elves were created with an innate
  *need* for *altruistic work*.  An idle elf will get sick and die.  Even levels
  of self-interest that would be normal and healthily in a human is also
  sufficient to cause a fatal illness in a house elf. Thus while they need not
  be magically bound to servitude as is traditional, they can at best be in an
  underpaid servant's position.  When bound, and elf can "feed" on the bond,
  using its master's magic to amplify its own.  Created by the ancestors of the
  giants. 
* Leprechaun - created by the use of extreme magics on an unknown mammal, by an
  unknown being.  
  > More intelligent than the fairy and less malicious than the imp, the pixie
  > or the Doxy, the leprechaun is nevertheless mischievous.[^20210916-5]
* Pixie - The pixie largely resembles an imp in behaviour and intelligence, but
  the fact that it bears live young suggests a different origin.  We have no
  true history of how they came to be. 
* Red Cap - even less intelligent than trolls, it is suspected that like them
  they were originally created for some type of combat.  That being said, no
  real knowledge of their origin is known. 
* Sphinx - created by the extreme use of magic on a lion by an Egyptian nephil,
  the only true unknown is how the sphinx survived the great Flood.  We are
  fairly confident, mostly by process of elimination, that its creators did not. 
* trolls - created by the extreme use of magics on apes, the *most* intelligent
  trolls might be able to perform similarly to a human with mental retardation
  capable of living in a group home. This is not a fair comparison however, the
  human is suffering from a disability; the troll is performing with unusual
  *capability.*  Believed to be created by the ancestors of the goblins. 


[knffnm]: <kokopelli.nsns.fanficauthors.net/Maskirovat/Maskirovat/>  

[^20210518-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_
    Better citation needed.

[^20210518-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable
    Guide_ p. 69. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210126-4]: Yanna N.
    "[Veelas – What Exactly Are The Slavic Seductresses From Harry Potter?](https://www.slavorum.org/veelas-what-exactly-are-the-slavic-seductresses-from-harry-potter/)"
    [The Official Slavorum](https://www.slavorum.org/) Last Viewed 2020-07-07.

[^20210916-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling
    _[Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find
    Them](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41899.Fantastic_Beasts_and_Where_to_Find_Them)_
    Kindle Locations 694-698. Pottermore. American Kindle Illustrated Edition. 

[^20210916-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling
    _[Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find
    Them](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41899.Fantastic_Beasts_and_Where_to_Find_Them)_
    Kindle Location 564. Pottermore. American Kindle Illustrated Edition. 

[^20210916-3]: This is an exaggerated version of Mrs. J. K. Rowling's
    "Acromantula" _[Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find
    Them](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41899.Fantastic_Beasts_and_Where_to_Find_Them)_
    Kindle Locations 265-266. Pottermore. American Kindle Illustrated Edition. 
