## Relative power of different characters in each class of power.
Last Name |First Name      |Inheritance Rule|Seraphim|Cherubim|Thrones|Dominions|Virtues|Powers|Principalities|Archangels|Angels|Average
----------|----------------|----------------|--------|--------|-------|---------|-------|------|--------------|----------|------|-------
Dumbledore|Albus[^note10]  |2               |7       |8       |9      |10       |8      |9     |6             |7         |9     |8.11   
Potter    |Euphemia[^note1]|1               |9       |1       |10     |10       |2      |9     |10            |9         |6     |7.33
Poter     |Fleamont[^note2]|1               |7       |8       |8      |4        |8      |7     |6             |9         |6     |7.00
Riddle    |Tom[^note9]     |1               |9       |5       |10     |8        |7      |9     |6             |9         |9     |8.00
Evans     |Mr.             |1               |2       |1       |1      |2        |3      |3     |3             |2         |3     |2.22
Evans     |Mrs.            |1               |1       |2       |1      |2        |3      |3     |3             |3         |3     |2.33
Figg      |Arabella        |4               |0       |2       |0      |1        |2      |1     |0             |0         |0     |0.44
Prince    |Eileen[^note8]  |1               |2       |7       |3      |6        |5      |4     |3             |4         |4     |4.22
Poter     |James[^note3]   |3               |8       |4       |9      |10       |5      |9     |8             |9         |6     |7.55
Evans     |Lily[^note5]    |7               |7       |7       |8      |6        |9      |6     |9             |6         |8     |7.33
Snape     |Severus[^note7] |7               |8       |9       |7      |6        |9      |9     |5             |8         |7     |7.55
Evans     |Petunia         |4               |1       |1       |1      |0        |0      |1     |1             |0         |0     |0.55
Dursley   |Dudley[^note6]  |6               |1       |1       |0      |0        |0      |0     |0             |0         |0     |0.22
Poter     |Harry[^note4]   |3               |8       |6       |9      |8        |7      |8     |9             |9         |8     |8.00

[^note10]: The cannonical books talk about Dumbledore as the most powerful
    wizard known, the only one Riddle fears, and yet Dumbledore cannot defeat
    Riddle.  Why is this?  Here I provide a possible explanation that is not
    simply lack of will to do so.  The devil is in the details.  Riddle is
    exceptionally strong in both offensive and defensive magic (Archangels and
    Angels), Dumbledore is only above average offensively, but is superlative in
    transmutation, manipulation of physics and chemistry, and binding the will.
    Unfortunately, Riddle actually equals or exceeds Dumbledore in the wand arts
    *except* in transmutation and temporary augementation (Virtues).  Neither of
    these makes for an easy combat victory, and Riddle's strong offensive magic
    means that it essentially becomes a stand-off between the two.  Dumbledore's
    great inteligence lets him use transmutation and out-of-the-box thinking to
    make up for a lack of directly offensive capability.  
    
[^note1]: We have no canonical background information on Euphemia except for the
    fact that she was either a pureblood or a halfblood.  Thus, I have moulded
    her to fit what I envision James to be.  She is an incredibly eclectic mix
    of highs and lows, in terms of ability.  I imagine, given how interconnected
    the wizarding world is, that no matter her personal beliefs, in her
    background, several ancestors have abused magics that compel the will,
    compulsions, imperious, confundus, and similar.  This has boosted her
    inheritance from the Thrones.  I further suspect she is related to the
    creators of one of the humaniform "races" of pseudo-sentient beings.  Such a
    massive violation of the natural order might well have boosted the Dominions
    inheritance to the point that it has yet to degrade even generations later.
    In short, she comes from a "darker" family, but, like Sirius, has rejected
    that past. 

[^note2]: Fleamont was an incredible duellist and a good potioneer. 

[^note3]: James really should not have existed at all.  He was born, per cannon,
    after his parents were already old. In many ways he inherited the average of
    both parents, but in keeping with the above, I am saying that the inheritance
    from the Dominions is too strongly "programmed" to degrade. 

[^note4]: Harry is, as you can see, slightly above an average of his parents
    except in a couple of key categories where he straight up inherited the more
    powerful ability.  As the child of two exceptionally powerful parents, even a
    partial inheritance can still result in someone really really powerful. We are
    finally far enough away from whenever in time the Dominions were abused that
    this ability can degrade. 

[^note5]: Lily inherited the sum total of her parents, plus an unexpected
    something extra.

[^note6]: Dudley is a male child from a human father and a squibbish nephil
    mother.  He stood a good chance of being born pure human.  Unfortunately, I
    need him to do a fair amount of "Harry Hunting."  He falls in that that 4%
    chance of a partial inheritance from just his mother. He has a *minuscule*
    ability to perceive that magic exists, and his only, barely rate-able,
    inheritance from the Seraphim, is a slight ability to feel when legilimency
    is being used around him.

[^note8]: We have next to no canonical information about Eileen Prince.  We know
    that she was either unable or unwilling to protect her sun from the muggle
    Tobias Snape.  I am assuming unable.  With that in mind, I have given her a
    range of abilities that left her week in the wand-based subjects,
    particularly where it comes to the types of magic that would allow her to
    protect her son most effectively.  She was probably good but not brilliant
    at Potions.

[^note7]: Snape is a potions prodigy.  He does his potions entirely
    instinctively, *and as such has no understanding of why other people do not
    find them just as easy*.  Snape is not just picking his ingredients
    precisely right, and augmenting them exactly as needed, he is even
    manipulating chemistry at an instinctual unconscious level so that his
    cauldrons and fires are exactly what the potion needs.  Snape has never
    needed an explanation of how to cut an ingredient, how to stir a potion,
    *why* one stirs one way versus another way, or any of the other myriad
    details of potion making.  He does not understand why anyone else might need
    these tedious lectures - they are self explanatory to anyone with half a
    brain.  The only reason why Lily outshines him in Slughorn's class is
    because: 

    1. he is essentially lazy.  The class comes easily to him, so he frequently
       tries just hard enough to show up everyone present *except* Lily (he does
       not care if she beats him)
    1. he is distracted by James and Sirius
       * partly by what they are doing to him
       * partly by what he is trying to do to them
    1. he is distracted *by __Lily__* whereas she feels only friendship for him
       and so is not distracted by him.

[^note9]: Riddle, as the male child of a near Squib, did not have great odds of
    being a powerful wizard.  That he is means that he was that 1% chance.

If you compare Snape, James, and Lily, you will see that Snape and James are
almost precisely equal, except for their exact skill set, and that Lily is
actually *slightly* under-powered compared to both of them.  This matches what
Ollivander says of James' and Lily's wands, that James' has a little more power,
and yet makes Lily powerful enough to be scary. 

The other thing I have done is that the average of Riddle and Harry's abilities
are both an 8, so that while they have different specific abilities, they are in
a sense equally strong nephilim.  You will see that really Harry is a much
more balanced wizard, he has neither the highs nor the lows that Riddle has
(though neither is an especially strong Cherubim).  The one place that Harry
shines that Riddle does not is the Principalities - population effects.  This is
probably counter-intuitive.  Riddle works by intimidation, and while you *can*
intimidate populations, that is not actually what he does.  Instead he creates
atrocities, and allows his *actions* to act on the populace.  Remember that the
population effects from the Principalities are tied to locations, thus Harry is
unconsciously enhancing his environment with magics that affect the people
around him.  However, he will not find out that is happening until he has
travelled far enough to see what it looks like when people are *not* affected by
this magic. 

f you stack rank Riddle against Lily and James, the there are really four things
that make Riddle so scary. 

1. With an inheritance of 9 from the Seraphim, few people can defend against his
   legilimency, particularly when he employs it in mid duel.
1. With his maximised inheritance from the Thrones, nearly no-one can resist his
   Imperius Curse. In point of fact, Riddle is unconsciously bending other
   nephil to his will merely by being in their presence.
1. Few wizards (or witches) are as strong at *both* attack and defence (this is
   effectively two things, hence I said four total).

If you compare him to Harry, and in light of the above, I am going to get
complaints that I am either being inconsistent if I let Harry resist Riddle's
Imperius Curse, or that I'm ignoring cannon where Harry does just that.  There
are three possibilities, and I will probably actually go some combination of
them:

1. If you put the Goblet of Fire grave yard situation in this universe, then you
   would *not* just have Harry resisting Riddle, because Harry also has Lily's
   protection augmenting his capabilities.  Riddle never fully understood that
   protection, and taking Harry's blood does not fully bypass it. 
1. Lily's protection aside, you need to decide what theory of
   [[horcruxes|Notes/Horcruxes]] you are using, and what affect that theory has
   on Riddle's powers after the destruction of the diary.  For this work, I
   think that both the audience and the characters are in the dark about that
   answer, but suffice to say that one way or another, you cannot suffer the
   destruction of a [[horcruxes|Notes/Horcruxes]] you have created without
   *suffering.* 
1. In the books, Harry *learns* to resist the Imperius Curse, the fake Moody
   uses it several times on him before he can resist it easily.  Even then, it
   takes Harry noticable effort to resist Riddle's when they meet in the
   graveyard.  This suggests that Harry's ability *is* less than Riddle's, but
   that Harry's is sufficiently strong that *with training* he can *learn* to
   stand up to Riddle. This last suggests that anyone with a score of 8 in the
   Thrones can be taught to resist Riddle's Imperius Curse.  That puts James,
   Dumbledore, and Snape at a level where they need not fear Riddle overwhelming
   them in the mind arts. 
