Tom Riddle: 1% chance of something bizarre happening (base value from his
mother, plus a bizarre bonus).
[[!table data="""
Type|base value|bonus value|total value| 
Seraphim|1|8|9|
Cherubim|4|1|5|
Thrones|1|9|10|
Dominions|4|4|8|
Virtues|4|3|7|
Powers|3|6|9|
Principalities|2|4|6|
Archangels|1|8|9|
Angels|1|8|9|
"""]]  

Riddle, as the male child of a near Squib, did not have great odds of being a
powerful wizard.  That he is means that he was that 1% chance.

The other thing I have done is that the average of Riddle and Harry's abilities
are both an 8, so that while they have different specific abilities, they are in
a sense equally strong nephilim.  

If you stack rank Riddle against Lily and James, the there are really four
things that make Riddle so scary.  
1. With an inheritance of 9 from the Seraphim, few people can defend against his
   legilimency, particularly when he employs it in mid duel. 
1. With his maximised inheritance from the Thrones, nearly no-one can resist his
   Imperius Curse. In point of fact, Riddle is unconsciously bending other nephil
   to his will merely by being in their presence. 
1. Few wizards (or witches) are as strong at *both* attack and defence (this is
   effectively two things, hence I said four total). 

If you compare him to Harry, and in light of the above, I am going to get
complaints that I am either being inconsistent if I let Harry resist Riddle's
Imperius Curse, or that I'm ignoring cannon where Harry does just that.  In my
own mind I am exploiting a loophole.  If you put the Goblet of Fire grave yard
situation in this universe, then you would *not* just have Harry resisting
Riddle, because Harry also has Lily's protection augmenting his capabilities.
Riddle never fully understood that protection, and taking Harry's blood does not
fully bypass it.  

Lily's protection aside, you need to decide what theory of [[horcruxes|Notes/Horcruxes]] you
are using, and what affect that theory has on Riddle's powers after the
destruction of the diary.  For this work, I think that both the audience and the
characters are in the dark about that answer, but suffice to say that one way or
another, you cannot suffer the destruction of a [[horcruxes|Notes/Horcruxes]]
you have created without *suffering.*  
