Snape also has to be a 1% chance of something bizarre happening, as a male from
a human father and a nephil mother, whose mother was unable to protect him from
abuse. 
[[!table header=yes data="""
Seraphim|2|6|8|
Cherubim|7|2|9|
Thrones|3|4|7|
Dominions|6|0|6|
Virtues|5|4|9|
Powers|4|5|9|
Principalities|3|2|5|
Archangels|4|4|8|
Angels|4|3|7|
"""]] 

As you can see, his mother was probably good but not brilliant at Potions, but
barely able to use a wand with the types of magic that might help with an
abusive husband.  

Snape on the other hand is a potions prodigy.  He does his potions entirely
instinctively, *and as such has no understanding of why other people do not find
them just as easy*.  Snape is not just picking his ingredients precisely right,
and augmenting them exactly as needed, he is even manipulating chemistry at an
instinctual unconscious level so that his cauldrons and fires are exactly what the
potion needs.  Snape has never needed an explanation of how to cut an
ingredient, how to stir a potion, *why* one stirs one way versus another way, or
any of the other myriad details of potion making.  He does not understand why
anyone else might need these tedious lectures - they are self explanatory to
anyone with half a brain.  The only reason why Lily outshines him in Slughorn's
class is because:

1. he is essentially lazy.  The class comes easily to him, so he frequently
   tries just hard enough to show up everyone present *except* Lily (he does not
   care if she beats him)
1. he is distracted by James and Sirius
   * partly by what they are doing to him
   * partly by what he is trying to do to them
1. he is distracted *by __Lily__* whereas she feels only friendship for him and
   so is not distracted by him. 

Note also that Snape and James are almost precisely equal, except for their
exact skill set, and that Lily is actually *slightly* under-powered compared to
both of them.  This matches what Ollivander says of James' and Lily's wands, that
James' has a little more power, and yet makes Lily powerful enough to be scary. 
