[[!meta title="Section 4: The Human Person Key Points" ]]
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]

1. Man
   a. "Of all visible creatures, only man is 'able to know and love his creator.'
      …[H]e alone is called to share, by knowledge and love, in God's own life. It
      was for this end that he was crated, and this is the fundamental reason for
      his dignity" (CCC 356).
   a. Man's dignity, or importance, is dependent on his destiny.
   a. The rest of creation derives *its* importance from that of Man.  The book
      uses the analogy of a cathedral to the worshipers in the cathedral.
   a. Our call to be the Body of Christ, along with our dignity as having been
      created in God's image requires us to act with solidarity with all other
      people.
   a. When the Bible says we are created in God's image, it is looking forward to
      the coming of Christ.  The incarnation of God as man makes all human persons
      have great dignity, and in fact holy. 
   a. We are not a soul inhabiting a body, as if the body is a robot that our soul
      drives or steers.  We do not become angels.
   a. Our soul is immortal, no animal has an immortal soul.  This is a second way
      in which we are created in God's image, in that we were created for
      immortality.
   a. Human sexuality is holy because in it we participate in God's creation. 
   a. Human sexuality is created and intended to be used within the context of
      marriage.
   a. Male and female are complimentary, that is different in nature but equal in
      value, designed to complete each other. 
1. The Fall
   a. The fall is a real historical event. 
   a. In class we discussed the nature of this temptation in some detail.
   a. Sin is the reason that there is any evil in the world, in a First Cause
      sense.
   a. The doctrine of sin is necessary to understand Man.
      * We were created good 
      * We are no longer able to be good without supernatural grace
      * Human theories that discount the fall miss one or the other of these.
   a. Effects of Original Sin on us:
      * the control of the soul over the body is shattered, we are subject to
        temptation from our physical desires.
      * the union of male and female is subject to tensions and their relations
        marked by lust and domination. 
      * harmony with creation is broken.
      * death 


