---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-02-01 15:39:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
Of course a constitutional ban on "gay marriage" must
be overturned.  No way it can be valid.  That appears to
be the mindset of a gay rights group in Oregon, as documented <a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/2-1-2005/20050201033008_02.html">here</a>.
One can only hope that the Defense of Marriage Coalition is correct,
and that the challenge will not succeed. <br  /><br  />

There is quite a bit that is objectionable in <a href="http://www.csmonitor.com/2005/0201/p01s01-ussc.html">this
article</a> from the <a href="http://www.csmonitor.com/">Christian
Science Monitor</a>.  I'm not exactly sure where to start.  How is
an understanding of marriage as binding "more restrictive"?  I would
say it is "more accurate."  On the plus side, it appears that some
places are looking at the same sort of marriage preparation classes
that the Church requires.  Once again, it raises the specter of
statistics suggesting that making divorce less accessible would
somehow increase domestic violence.  In general, I am leery of
statistics, but it would be nice to have a set of my own to wave
back and say "no it doesn't."  A governor in Michigan seems to have
the right idea: get the state out of the lives of the citizens,
"But the decisions men and women make about marriage are private
decisions. State government should not expand its role into such
private matters."  Also raised in this article is a less obvious
but really much bigger issue.  We have fallen incredibly far if a
law that says the state shall presume "that a husband is the father
of any child born to his former wife within 300 days of a divorce"
cannot even be taken for granted!  Heaven help us.<br  /><br  />

<em><strong>What in the world is Cardinal Cottier
thinking&#x203d;</strong></em> This crazy cardinal over at the
Vatican has managed to err in three ways at once!  First and
foremost, how is it that a cardinal does not know that you do not
choose "the lesser of two evils," but rather that you choose the
one guaranteed way to end evil: abstain from it.  He's advocating
condom use because it might help slow the spread of AIDS.  Never mind
that simply not having sex when infected, and not having sex with
multiple people would go far, far further to halt the spread of AIDS
without choosing an evil at all!  Next he thinks that condom use
would slow the spread of AIDS.  Given the failure rate on condoms,
such that they will not even effectively stop sperm, how in the
world does he think they will slow the spread of AIDS?  And the
failure rate is generally computed when they are "used correctly,"
which means there must be a way to use them "incorrectly" presumably
with a higher failure rate.  Lastly, and perhaps most importantly,
he said all this where it could be quoted, and make it to the press.
So now the press gets to cheer and spread the word about "the
growing number of influential Catholic Church figures questioning
the official Vatican ban on condom use."  And they get to go on
to say "The point is that the Vatican is slowly being forced to
admit by some of its most authoritative churchmen that this is a
complex moral argument which does not allow for a simple overall
ban on the use of condoms."  By the way, both of these quotes are
from <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4226489.stm">this
BBC article</a>.  <em>This</em> is why there is such a thing as
"scandal" and why it is considered as serious as it is.

