---

title: 20050415-1020
date: 2005-04-15 15:20:00
layout: rut
---

<p> So the whale-dolphin mix over in Hawaii made Yahoo news today.
I've known about it for some time, and have used it as an example
of how messed up our science is today.  You realize there aren't
any research papers on this beast?  And it has given birth!
A cross bread like this should be sterile, if the parents were
in fact different species.  Now the Yahoo News story says they
are in the same family, I remember reading that you had to go
up another level before they were grouped together, but still,
these are <strong>not</strong> the same <em>genus</em> much less
same species.  Or at least so we have thought.  I wounder, which
will give, the definition of species, the classification of each,
or will it continue to be ignored?</p>

<p>This is <strong><em>huge</em></strong> news because there
<strong>is</strong> a scientific definition of species, and it
does not allow for this event.  Two things <strong>must</strong>
be in the same species if when they mate they produce fertile
offspring.  Further, this article says something I had <em>not</em>
heard before: there are rumors that this happens in the wild also.
This is not just a freak of close confinement.  But even if it were,
do you think its all that common that a big dog, say a great dane,
as I am not all that familiar with dogs, and a small one, say a toy
poodle, would mate?  Yet we don't worry about them being lumped in
the same species.  We understand that you simply cannot separate
them, as they are clearly in the same species with dogs that are
clearly in the same species&#x2026;you get the idea.  You simply
cannot split them.  This does the same thing for that family, it
challenges the idea that that family has more than one species in it.
If this sort of thing were to happen to other families, you'd see
a sharp reduction in the species counts.  On one hand this would
in fact make Darwin's claims easier; but not meaningfully so.
The big challenge to Darwin is its ability to create life,
and its ability to grow it to multi-cellular organisms at all.
The biochemical is the unanswerable challenge.  On the other hand,
this reduces the complexity of Noah's task as well.  And that is
a welcome development. <font size="+2">&#x263a;</font></p>

<strong><big>UPDATE 20050415-1023:</big></strong>  I realized I did not include the link, <a href="http://beta.news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20050415/ap_on_sc/wholphin_birth_6&printer=1">here it is</a>.

