[[!meta title="List of Hogwarts Students by Year"]]
[[!toc levels=2 startlevel=3]]


### Students starting in 1987

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1987.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1988

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1988.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1989

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1989.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1990

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1990.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1991

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1991.dsv"]]

Mrs. Rowling's original notes put Kevin Entwhistle in Ravenclaw[^20200701-3],
but there are too many Ravenclaws and too many boys for her seeming desire for
symmetry. Given my [[argument about how students would be
sorted|Class_and_Blood]], I think he mutated to a Hufflepuff girl.  Based on the
same logic, Rivers is almost certainly a pureblood, but might be a halfbood. 

The [[same argument|Class_and_Blood]] suggests the ambiguity of the [[Weasley]]
social class. 

Lots of fanfiction uses an extra female character named Fay Dunbar as one of the
girls in [[Harry's|Harry]] year.  This apparently comes from the _Harry Potter
and the Half-Blood Prince_ video game.[^20200706-2]  I see no indication in the
wiki article that Mrs. Rowling had influence in naming the extra characters in
the game versions. Unless I see otherwise, I'm going to assume that Fay and
Sophie are the same person, and will probably go with Sophie as the name.

[^20200701-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  <https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Harry_Potter_and_Me?file=Pagenotes.jpg>

[^20200706-2]: "[Fay Dunbar](https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Fay_Dunbar#Behind_the_scenes)"
    Last Viewed 2020-07-06. 

### Students starting in 1992

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1992.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1993

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1993.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1994

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1994.dsv"]]

### Students starting in 1995

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1995.dsv"]]

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
