## Hogwarts

### Class Schedules Rant

These pretty much must be intended more as a plot device than any serious
attempt at sitting down and figuring out how to schedule classes for four houses
across seven years with only one teacher per subject. Any number of people have 
tried to figure this out, and I've seen a few claim to make work, though I do
not have any of their results on hand.  Still, a number of the problems should
be self-evident if you pay any attention to detail at all. ChokolatteJedi wrote
over 18 thousand words across 3 chapters trying to make sense of the
schedules[^20200629-1] in what looks like a fairly well researched work that
outlines most of the holes, problems, and inconsistencies.

I can accept that taking five electives on top of a course load that
theoretically kept students well occupied for 2 years might over work and stress
out even the best student.  There might well be good reason for limiting most
students to two of three electives.  That being said, it boggles my mind that
Hermione would be scheduled in _three_ classes for first period Monday morning.
One of two things is happening here.  Either, as I said, the schedule is a total
plot device and the three classes are on top of each other simply to make
Hermione's schedule obviously insane, or some of the classes actually have two
sessions per year, and McGonagall has purposefully put Hermione in an "odd"
session, perhaps attempting to make it less obvious that she is taking
overlapping classes.  

Of the two of these, the former, that it is purely a plot
device actually makes more sense. Originally I argued this from a career
requirements and Gryffindor class selection basis. It was a decent argument, but
there is in fact a better that I had missed. Hermione's exam schedule is the
final bit of proof you need to demonstrate that third year Gryffindors are
extremely limited without a time turner.

Hermione's schedule as a conflict between Charms and Ancient Runes exam
times.[^20200629-5] We know from Ron's inspection of her schedule on the first
day of class that there she is overlapping times for Divination, Muggle Studies,
and Arithmancy.[^20200629-6] Now, at least seven of the other Gryffindor students take Divination and
Care of Magical Creatures. The latter is shared with the Slytherins, but the
former appears to be dedicated to them. Either way, those two time slots have no
conflict with the core classes everyone has to take.

Because none of the other seven named Gryffindor third years take Muggle Studies, Arithmancy, or
Ancient Runes, we are unsure if there _is_ a normal Gryffindor time slot for
them.  We do not know what classes Sophie Roper or Lily Moon[^20200706-1] take as they are nearly entirely unmentioned 
in the books, but even if there was no interest (other than Hermione) that year, the time
slot should be available because that should not be consistent from year to
year. Still, you could argue that Hogwarts for some truly bizzare reason has no
standard schedule and the staff reinvents it each year.  In such a case, with
only one student interested, they may have … neglected to schedule some time
slots.  It is a viable argument, but rediculous. 

[^20200706-1]: I know Fay Dunbar is the prototypical name for a Gryffindor girl.
See my [[Notes]] on [[Hogwarts]] for why I am using these names. I pretty much
have to pick between using a video game name or using a name from a note sheet.

You could try to say that it has to be variable because interest is variable but
while Divination is a dedicated class, Care of Magical Creatures is not, and yet
both have every single Gryffindor in them. In fact, it is implied (but not
stated) that must if not all Slytherin students took Care of Magical Creatures
as well. So we have no problems with doubling up houses for the electives.  My
guess is that all electives are always doubled up, and that either we just do
not hear about the other house in Divination, or that for whatever reason no one
from that house is interested in Divination.

So assuming there is a normal time slot, there must be a way for a Gryffindor
student to take Ancient Runes.  The exam obviously cannot conflict with a core
class everyone is required to take. Hermione's exam does.  The options are that
the (again) that the schedule is a plot device, or that Hermione is in some
other house's Ancient Runes class. Given my guess that all electives are doubled
up, there are two Ancient Runes sections, one for Gryffindor and x, and the
other for y and z.  While the Gryffindor Ancient Runes roster is between one and
three (depending on our two extra girls), we have no reason to think that the 
size of the class in x is equally small to
justify dropping the time slot for lack of interest. 

Since Divination, Muggle Studies and Arithmancy are all on top of each other,
none of these three conflict with Ancient Runes.  Thus it is there is no reason
to shift her Ancient Runes class to another house's time slot, doing so would in
fact make the situation worse, not better, given how tightly streached the
teachers are - the other house's time slot is almost certainly going to conflict
with something else she is supposed to be in.  

So the time turner is necessary because no student can take any two of Muggle
Studies, Divination, and Arithmancy. This is confirmed because by dropping two
of these, she no longer needs it. However, despite no longer needing it fourth
year and beyond, she would still need it third year simply to attend both Charms
and Ancient Runes, neither of which should have needed a time turner to allow
her to attend the other three.

The excessive number of schedule conflicts are present because 1) they increase
the mystery 2) it lets Hermione be supper inteligent without informing Harry of
anything 3) it provides reasons for her and Ron to fight.

[^20200629-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ 
(p. 323). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200629-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ 
(pp. 101-102). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200629-1]: ChokolatteJedi. _[Meta about Hogwarts Class
Schedule](https://archiveofourown.org/works/17908985?view_full_work=true)_
<https://archiveofourown.org/>
<https://archiveofourown.org/works/17908985?view_full_work=true> Last Viewed
2020-06-29
