[[!toc  startlevel=3]]
[[!meta title="Wizarding World Culture"]]
## Wizarding World Culture

Of all the many world building elements in the Harry Potter series, this is 
perhaps the most debated.  Mrs. Rowling has given us a very incomplete and at 
times contradictory look into the world that Harry re-encounters as he turns 
eleven.  Just how separate is the "Wizarding World" from that which those
without magic inhabit? How many of the differences are due to the school
environment that dominates the books?  How many real differences does a school
environment populated by adolescents suppress?  Fanfiction has explored any number
of paths by adding all sorts of details as different fans have needed different
elements to make their stories work. 

### First-Generation "Immigrants"

Assuming that there *are* real differences between the culture dominating
magical Britain and non-magical Britain, some authors express frustration with
first generation magical users like Hermione who come into this new world
essentially as immigrants, and yet make no effort to learn about their new
society before both making value judgements and demanding that everyone change
to conform to the non-magical value system and culture.[^20210220-2] Per this
view, it is the responsibility of the first generation magical user to learn
about the magical culture just like it would be my responsibility to learn about
French culture should I move to France. Just as France and french citizens would
have no special obligation to me, the magical world has no special obligation to
these first generation magic users. 

On the face of it, there is some merit to this argument; it is persuasive, seems
consistent, and certainly puts the first generation magical user on the
defensive.  This argument has, however, some significant flaws.  Both Harry and
Hermione chose to attend Hogwarts, but neither were given full information.
Would Hermione have chosen to immigrate to a society where she would be a third
class citizen?  Even if she would have, would her parents have allowed such a
decision?  

Rowling does not tell us what happens to a muggleborn child who does not chose
to accept the invitation to Hogwarts, but the common speculation falls into two
camps.  Either the child is simply not allowed to decline, or the child's
magical ability is "bound" or "suppressed" in some way, and the knowledge of
magic removed with spells such as obliviate.  Assuming that either of these is
true, then the analogy to immigration utterly falls down.  The first generation
witch or wizard has been forced to enter this society, at "wand point." If you
force me to join your society, then you *do* bear some responsibility for
teaching me to succeed in it.  

The common defence of forcing first-generation magicals to join the new society
is the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy(ISWS).  The argument goes that
an untrained witch or wizard would be unable to control their accidental magic,
and would expose the existence of magic to the non-magical society.  This is
probably reasonable.  Eventually someone would gain sufficient conscious or even
unconscious control over their magic to start using it in very public and very
undeniable ways.  This would eventually lead to investigations into the
abilities, the people who have them, and these investigations, done by any
competent government or reasonably sized organisation, would probably eventually
detect enough of the hidden society to deduce its overall existence. 

The ISWS was only signed by Wizarding Governments, which seem to have a tenuous
relationship with their non-magical counterparts.  In Britain, there is a separate
legislature, separate courts, and a separate "minister," who, based on the
interactions we see, *informs*, not *reports to* the non-magical Prime
Minister.[^20210323-5]  This makes for a fairly strong case that while the
magical government *may* in some nebulous sense still recognise the Crown
(though that is certainly not stated and thus is debatable), it is otherwise an
entirely separate government.  

I am told that under non-magical British law, a child does not automatically
gain citizenship merely by being born within British borders.[^20210323-6] The
British magical society seems to take the opposite view, that anyone born within
its jurisdiction *is* automatically a citizen, and thus *under* its
jurisdiction.  While children do not normally get to contest what government
rules them, their parents typically *do* (except in cases of those who break the
law and thus have their rights suspended or revoked by due process of the law).
Here we have a situation where a child, by virtue of being born with a
particular trait, is said to be of a different nationality from the parents said
child cohabits with, and thus under a different jurisdiction, the very
existence of which is unknown to the parent.

Should the child, or the parent acting on behalf of the child, either break the
laws, or even create a situation where the laws are likely to be broken (by not
training the child), the secret government has enacted regulations such that the
child can be irrevocably harmed (I strongly suspect the United Nations would
consider crippling a child's ability to use any skill harm) and the minds of
both parent (who is NOT under the jurisdiction of the secret government) and
child manipulated and modified. 

Since the ISWS was signed *after* the separation of the magical and non-magical
governments into effectively separate countries with overlapping territory, it
is unlikely that the non-magical government had much input into its provisions,
rather they were almost certainly simply informed after the fact, if at all.  A
government might well consider itself bound by a treaty signed by a preceding
government, but not by some essentially unaffiliated government.  The
requirements of the ISWS leave the non-magical government no recourse should
(as essentially happens in Book 7) the magical government become a threat to the
non-magical population, this might have worked in the age of absolute monarchs,
but even in the 1680s and 1690s, Parliament was curtailing the rights of British
monarchs, though not to the extent of today. No government that rules by the
consent of the governed can sign away the rights of its citizens to safeguard
their children the way the ISWS does. 

When the children arrive at Hogwarts, they are only then told, and that in
piecemeal, that they have in fact joined a new society.  Since the consequences
of withdrawing from that society are never spelled out, it is safe to say that
they are not known to the children *before* they arrive at school.  Hermione
would not have risked practising at home before first year[^20210323-8] if she
knew it was illegal.  This new "world" they have joined has customs that they
are expected to know, but will not be taught, laws that they must follow, and
*no way out*.  

They might not have been kidnapped, in that they can go home for a few weeks at
Christmas, and two months or so each summer, but they will quickly find they fit
in less and less at home.  They cannot show their parents anything from school;
they know nothing of what has gone on in the non-magical society for the last
four to ten months; their non-magical education is frozen at age eleven, so they
lack all sorts of key concepts to even converse with their peers and,
increasingly, with their parents. Perhaps in the 1600s this divide was not all
that severe.  Few non-magical families had much education, and if you did not
come from a farming family, you were probably apprenticed out at a young age
anyway.  However, as non-magical society moved into and then through the
industrial revolution and into the modern era, this changed, and probably
started to create more and more friction between non-magical expectations of how
family works, how society works, and the more stagnant magical society. 

It is in this context that they are then criticised for wanting things to be the
way they were raised to expect. Those who come from old, aggressively magical
families rightly complain that first generation magical users always want to
change things.  They are however at fault.  They created the divide between
cultures by refusing to stay connected with the non-magical world on one hand,
and by *forcing* the immigration of the first-generation users on the other.  If
they want their static society, they have options:

* they can actually abduct the first generation children on the first sign of
  magic.  I consider this morally abhorrent, but it would work.  I think this is
  what Mrs. Rowling envisions for [[MACUSA]] but I refuse to consider that. 
* they can exclude first-generation magical users from magical society.  This
  will create risks to the ISWS, but with careful and aggressive use of memory
  charms, it is also possible that a second, un-hidden magical "culture" (or I
  guess sub-culture, since it would actually exist as a sub-component of the
  surrounding non-magical cultures) could develop independent of the ISWS
  culture. I consider the use of memory charms morally repugnant, but the ISWS
  pretty much demands it. 
* they can give up on the ISWS.  This does not necessarily require they give up
  on having a separate government and culture, it *does* require they give up on
  the secrecy.  That in turn means accountability to the surrounding
  populations, something that I am not actually confident that they could
  survive.  

[^20210323-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_
    p. 8. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 
    This is probably the clearest reference, though really the entire chapter
    proves the point.

[^20210323-6]: Ms. Clare Feikert-Ahalt. 
    "[Laws Concerning Children of Undocumented Migrants: United Kingdom](https://www.loc.gov/law/help/undocumented-migrants/uk.php)"
    Section III: "Pathways to Legal Residence and Citizenship for Illegal
    Immigrants" Subsection A: "Children".
    [Library of Congress Law Library](https://www.loc.gov/law)
    2017-09-?? 

[^20210323-7]: [Harry Potter Wiki](https://harrypotter.fandom.com/).
    "[International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy]https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/International_Statute_of_Wizarding_Secrecy)"
    Last Edited: 2021-01-18. Last Viewed: 2021-03-23.

[^20210323-8]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. Book 1, better citation needed. 

### Blood Status

I wrote an entire page on [[class and blood|Class_and_Blood]].

### Clothing

Mrs. Rowling insists that wizards wear robes.[^20200723-4] The problem is that
she claims that this is because wizarding fashion is intentionally frozen in the
16th century.  This is a problem because while academics, clerics, and scholars
wore robes in the 16th century, male fashion varied considerably for those in
other occupations.  This is very much part of era of doublets and
hose.[^20200723-5] Sometimes guys wore "over-gowns" other decades they did not.
Sometimes the doublets were more or less "skirted."  Some decades codpieces were
in evidence.  For the Hogwarts uniform to be robe based is one thing, but
wizards seem to come from every strata of society.  It is highly unlikely that
they all view themselves as court scholars; surely some of them would have
preferred a more lordly self-image, others a more martial self-image.  The styles
of the century she cites allow for both.  The working classes and farming
families would have wanted something more practical as well, even if they did
use magic in place of manual labour as much as possible and even when somewhat
unreasonable.  Who seriously wears robes with little or nothing under them to do
such classic wizarding things like flying a broom or duelling? 

The real question then is how the girls dress.  Magic allows for greater gender
equality, and the society described in the books _mostly_ supports that, though
it hints that there may be some severe social limitations on married witches,
and what is "proper" versus what is "allowed."  Do the girls consistently wear
long dresses, or do they also adopt activity appropriate garb?  If only the
quidditch players adopt activity appropriate garments, that might well be why
girls playing quidditch is not "proper." 

[^20200723-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    "[Clothing](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/clothing)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20200723-5]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org).
    "[1500–1550 in Western European fashion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1500%E2%80%931550_in_Western_European_fashion)"
    Last Edited 2020-05-17.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.
    [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org).
    "[(1550–1600 in Western European fashion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1550%E2%80%931600_in_Western_European_fashion)"
    Last Edited 2020-06-25.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

### Parchment and Quills

I think the use of parchment and quills is a an example of Wizarding culture
being deliberately antiquarian.  There may also be an element of exclusivity -
it takes practice to use a quill with any degree of skill that pureblood
children will have but that first generation children will utterly lack.  There
may also be a sense of exclusivity in a second sense, parchment is *expensive*
and the extensive use of parchment even stupid little notes and homework
assignments will help keep poor families away from magical knowledge.  If you
cannot afford parchment, your children cannot do as well at Hogwarts, and thus
cannot do as well in later life. This came to me when I was reading a fanfiction
that talked about not just Harry using a fountain pen, but that many pureblood
wives "secretly" did the same for their (extensive) correspondence.[^20200816-3]
For whatever reason, it occurred to me to look up the steel nibbed dip pens that
predated fountain pens, wondering when in non-magical (actual) history pens
started to replace the use of quills.  I was really quite surprised.  Apparently
pens go *way* back, the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org) was very Britain
centric (which is actually fine for my purposes), but apparently our earliest
pen (a copper one) dates from around 410, just as the Romans were pulling out of
Britain.[^20200816-4] It does not come out and state it, but my guess is that
for a long time fine metal work was *really* expensive, so quills remain the
standard writing utensil until the mass production of steel pens in
1822.[^20200816-5]  Interestingly, according to the article, these type of pens
are still favoured over fountain pens for calligraphy and other artistic works
that require precision and varied thicknesses.[^20200816-6]  

From this I can draw a couple of conclusions.  Magical users would dislike
fountain pens, because they seem drawn to multi-coloured inks (which are more
difficult with fountain pens), and because arts like ancient runes would need
much the same precision that writing calligraphy does.  The dip pen on the other
hand, should show no marked difference from a quill for writing your runes.
Both would be substandard to a brush - there is a reason that Chinese and
Japanese languages are painted, not written when you look at the really fancy
stuff. The dip pen could further be _engraved_ with runes.  In the books you see
spell correcting quills, and others with anti-cheating charms.  I can see both
of these being done more reliably with runes.  You want a dicto-quill?  Again,
you can see how this can be reproduced.  

Moreover, magical users are clearly drawn to the aesthetic quality of a fancy
feather.  Fountain pens _can_ be artistic, but are generally fairly utilitarian.
Your dip pen on the other hand could be a work of art.  I did a quick Google
search on "steel nib feather" for example, and you can just imagine a wizard
using many of those. 

Paper and parchment is a bit more uncertain.  Paper is *really* old, perhaps as
far back as 300 B.C. in China.[^20200816-7]  However, it took a while for paper
to reach Europe, sometime around the 11th Century.[^20200816-8]  Paper was
originally viewed with disdain, unworthy for formal communication, or important
works[^20200816-9]; something that would definitely influence the magically
community.  However, it seems that by the 16th Century or so, paper had largely
replaced parchment, driven largely by the printing press.[^20200816-10] The
Wizarding world does seem to have a sufficient trade in books to stock at least
two book stores (one in Hogsmeade and one in Diagon Alley), and I am quite
confident that the books give us a view of the press that the Quibbler is
printed on.  This means that they do use paper books, and paper periodicals.

Any number of fanfiction works I've read have speculated that there might be a
magical reason for using parchment instead of paper.  Most of these have not
really made much sense given the above.  However one I came across recently
does.  

> Paper doesn’t take magic terribly well: parchment is a single piece of
animal skin, a unitary object. Paper is laid fibre from multiple trees, a
composite object and as such tricky to get predictable results out of when you
enchant it. The more you know, et cetera.[^20200819-1]

The reference is to some of the fragmentary descriptions we have from
McGonagall's lectures on transfiguration.  You have to be able to visualise the
object that you are working your magic on.  In this light it is actually easier
to see why it might be troublesome to enchant paper.  It would be all too easy
to have a charm take hold on only a subset of the fibres involved, and thus
behave erratically across the document.  This makes a strong argument for using
parchment (or vellum) for documents that are *actually magical in nature* (like
contracts, tests charmed against cheating, official government or banking forms,
etc), but not for standard every day things (like homework, class notes, and
letters (unless you are including privacy charms)).  

You would then want writing utensils that work equally well on both, but while
I can't speak to how a fountain pen or ball point pen might work on parchment, a
quill or dip pen should both work equally well on any decent quality paper.

[^20200819-1]: AndrewWolfe. _[The Ghost of Privet Drive](https://archiveofourown.org/works/21500365)_
    [Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org) Last Updated 202008-14. Last Viewed 2020-08-19. 

[^20200816-3]: Sinyk. _[Angry Harry and the Seven](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9750991)_ 
    [FanFiction](https://www.fanfiction.net/). Last Updated 2013-10-22. Last Viewed
    2020-08-16. 

[^20200816-4]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).
    "[Dip pen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dip_pen)" Last Edited 2020-07-24. Last Viewed 2020-08-16

[^20200816-5]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).
    "[Dip pen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dip_pen)" Last Edited 2020-07-24. Last
    Viewed 2020-08-16

[^20200816-6]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).
    "[Dip pen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dip_pen)" Last Edited 2020-07-24. Last
    Viewed 2020-08-16

[^20200816-7]: ©Paper Sizes. "[The History Of Paper](https://www.papersizes.org/paper-history-overview.htm)"
    [International Paper Sizes and Formats](https://www.papersizes.org/) Last viewed 2020-08-16.

[^20200816-8]: ©Paper Sizes. "[The History Of Paper](https://www.papersizes.org/paper-history-overview.htm)"
    [International Paper Sizes and Formats](https://www.papersizes.org/) Last viewed
    2020-08-16.

[^20200816-9]: Reginmund. "[The Rise and Fall of Parchment](http://www.allempires.com/article/index.php?q=parchment)"
    [All Empires Online History Community](http://www.allempires.com/) 2007-01-10. Last Viewed 2020-08-16.

[^20200816-10]: Reginmund. "[The Rise and Fall of Parchment](http://www.allempires.com/article/index.php?q=parchment)"
    [All Empires Online History Community](http://www.allempires.com/) 2007-01-10.
    Last Viewed 2020-08-16.

[^20210220-2]: you see this in a number of works, but I currently remember:
    * Shygui. _[A Fateful Walk](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/12150047)_ 
        [Chapter 8](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/12150047/8/A-Fateful-Walk). 
        Updated: 2018-09-05; Published: 2016-09-15; Last Viewed: 2021-02-20.
    * Sinyk. _[Angry Harry and the Seven](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9750991)_
        [Chapter 7](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9750991/17/Angry-Harry-and-the-Seven)
        Updated: 2013-10-22; Published: 2013-10-09; Last Viewed 2021-02-20.


[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

