## Dumbledore

### timeline notes

* Dumbledore became Headmaster after Lupin was bitten.[^20200720-6]

[^20200720-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ 
(p. 362). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

### Character Analysis

Musings of Apathy, in writing the original version of [Family Inseparable](https://musings-of-apathy.fanficauthors.net/Family_Inseparable/index/), envisions Dumbledore as (my words) misguided, and perhaps ruthless, but not evil.[^20180702-2]  One of the things that really struck me as I started to really think about the Harry Potter books (as opposed to just enjoying them as stories), is just how valid some of the common fanfiction criticisms of Dumbledore are.  In no particular order:

* Dumbledore does not seem to know about the horcruxes until he is presented with the diary.  He knew Riddle had survived the Halloween encounter with Harry, but apparently did nothing to investigate this.
* Harry's scar as a horcrux:
  * [Saving the Saviour](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11833745/14/Saving-the-Saviour) talks about how Dumbledore didn't have Harry examined at all by a Healer after that fateful Halloween night.  Could the soul fragment Riddle left have been detected?  Could something have been done about it? 
  * See the discussion on Harry's scar in [[Horcruxes]] 
  * More or less a follow up to the previous point, but further consider.  Dumbledore states that he did not know that Harry would survive.  Dumbledore _hoped_ that Harry would.  Dumbledore, by his own admission, knows that Harry will be willing to sacrifice himself.  The reason implied is that Dumbledore is well aware of Harry's heroic virtue.  But when you consider how much Dumbledore hid from Harry, how calculated the final revelation is, I think there is more to it.  Dumbledore is not leaving anything to chance - I agree with fanfiction authors who think that Dumbledore has, in the choices he has made regarding Harry's upbringing, purposefully worked to shape Harry into someone who will make that choice.  This does not negate Harry's virtue; Dumbledore is building on Harry's nature, not creating it out of whole cloth.  Honestly, if Dumbledore were as calculating about subjecting Harry to abuse as some authors would have him, then he took an incredibly reckless chance.  Dumbledore knows how similar Harry's situation is to Riddle's childhood.  I think that this plan is something that Dumbledore came to over time, not something he intended from the beginning.
* Dumbledore placed Mrs. Figg to watch Harry.  She knows she has to be unpleasant to him to retain access to him and thus fulfilled her mission.  Surely this was reported to Dumbledore over the years.  He presumably did not believe her, possibly because she is a squib, and he has some of the pure-blood's unconscious prejudices against them.  Alternately, while he does believe her, he risks both Harry turning evil and Harry's health, because he views the odds that Harry will be killed by a Death Eater and/or a returned Riddle that probable.  There _must_ have been some middle ground.  Between Dumbledore's civil authority on the Wizengamot, and his experience with and control over magic, he could have dome _something_ to intervene in Harry's treatment.
* Along the same lines, the following the quote from _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_:
  > You arrived at Hogwarts, neither as happy nor as well nourished as I would have liked, perhaps, yet alive and healthy. You were not a pampered little prince, but as normal a boy as I could have hoped under the circumstances. Thus far, my plan was working well.

  and secondly the quote:
  > You had suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your aunt and uncle’s doorstep. I knew I was condemning you to ten dark and difficult years.

Against this collection of problems is Dumbledore's friendship with Fawkes.  How intelligent are phoenixes?  Does the phoenix bond with its partner (popular in fanfiction), or is it more of a friendship thing?  A phoenix in the HP world is a highly loyal creature.  Would this loyalty persist if Dumbledore started to believe his own legend and allow power to corrupt him? We do not, to my knowledge, have good answers to any of these questions.
> Fawkes slept soundly on his perch. Being willing to sacrifice one boy's life and happiness was a horrible decision to make, but not an outright evil one. Plus, the stories everyone believed about phoenixes had been started by Dumbledore anyway. At the end of the day, though highly magical, unicorns were just horses and phoenixes were just birds.[^20191025-1]

[^20191025-1]: Fibinaci.  [_Padfoot, Docteur
D'Amour_](https://www.ultimatehpfanfiction.com/hannah/pda/a/6/Padfoot%2C+Docteur+D%27Amour/Fibinaci/21)
Last viewed 2019-10-25.

Some authors of fanfiction have focused in on Dumbledore's talk of "the greater good" in his relationship with Gellert Grindelwald.  To what extent did Dumbledore actually turn away from this view of morality, that so long as you act for the greater good, you can cause suffering to individuals? Ms. Richa Venkatraman wrote a defence of Dumbledore on MuggleNet[^20190301-1] in which she seems to express well the view that Harry himself has in the book, that Dumbledore is ultimately a good, if flawed, person.  I have trouble with this, it is way too close to "the ends justify the means," and I am far from convinced that it differs in any important detail.  Yes you should act to promote the greatest good to the greatest number of people, but you may not do so using means that encompass actual harm to individuals.  The ends (the greater good) do not justify the means (cooperating with (in a moral sense) the abuse Harry suffers).  I suspect however, that Ms. Venkatraman is right, that Dumbledore suffers in his conscience from the pain he causes, and he does _intend_ good.  For my purposes, Fawkes recognises this good intent, but is not intelligent enough (a phoenix is an animal, not a being) to understand the flaws in Dumbledore's execution.  

I myself am convinced that Dumbledore, while not formally evil
per-se, strongly subscribes to a utilitarian world view that allows him to
passively allow suffering, so long as he does not _directly_ cause it, and so long
as he judges it necessary to obtain some end he deems worthy.  In short "the
greater good" is a version of "the ends justify the means" except that
Dumbledore pays semantics with different levels of cooperation with
evil.[^20200624-1] Formally, Dumbledore's cooperation is often Remote Mediate Material Cooperation,
sometimes Proximate Mediate Material Cooperation, and only occasionally 
Immediate Material Cooperation. Dumbledore himself would view only Formal
Cooperation wrong (or "dark"), though he probably feels uneasy about Immediate Material
cooperation. 

Notice that even with Remote Mediate Material Cooperation, Catholic theology
would require that Dumbledore exercise caution. Should he truly be _unknowing_,
then he is naturally blameless, but I suspect he's more often being wilfully
ignorant if not aware and actually negligent. He is, to the extent that he does
know of the evil results, or could and should know if he exercised a normal
level of prudence, required to assess if his actions have a proportionately
serious reason.  I suspect that Dumbledore always does this, so he is not guilty
where his cooperation is Remote Mediate Material Cooperation.

However, with Harry, Dumbledore goes beyond this.  By sending him back knowing
his time there would be "dark" and "difficult,"[^20200624-2] I believe he has
gone beyond Remote Cooperation and is now doing something that minimally "leads
to the commission of the act" if not "is necessary for the immoral act to
occur."[^20200624-3] With either of these two categories, Dumbledore is guilty to the extent
he foresaw the evil, and even more guilty to the extent he continued his course
of action after not just foreseeing the evil, but being aware that it was a
reality.  The one thing I keep coming back to is echoed in at least one
fanfiction I have read:

> No, he could not admit he knew anything about the abuse. He could not admit that he had actually planned for it, to keep young Harry humble and meek; that he was now trying to duplicate it through Serverus' good offices.
> 
> The world did not need another Voldemort: a powerful magical user working at the top of his skill level, with curiosity and drive and ambition. And with enough hatred to doom the entire world.
> 
> The world also did not need a Harry Potter raised by Sirius Black amid privilege and wealth and freedom. That wouldn't do.
> 
> No, the world needed this Harry, shy, polite, an indifferent student, and utterly incurious, save for what he could learn about his parents.[^20200721-1]

[^20200721-1]: DisobedienceWriter. _[Harry Potter's Life Lessons](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/3750393)_.  [FanFiction](https://www.fanfiction.net/) Published 2007-08-27.  Last Viewed 2020-07-21.

Now in this particular fanfiction, Harry is acting somewhat out of character.  The cannon Harry is *intensely* curious, but from Dumbledore's perspective about the "right" things: Harry is curious about the Stone, about the robbery attempt, ultimately about (although Harry does not know it at first) Riddle.  The cannon Harry is even less academically inclined than this fanfiction Harry is.  It is perhaps the closest Dumbledore comes to being active.  There comes a point at which the way he (Dumbledore) has been blind to the situation with Snape ceases to be an act of omission, of merely neglecting to do (or even notice) something, and makes one an active accomplice.  Dumbledore allowed both the marauders and the Weasley twins what appears to have been fairly free reign.  The marauders certainly and the Weasleys likely crossed the line between humour and cruelty in their so called pranks.  In another place I might well speculate that Snape and Filch are our primary source for this opinion and that neither is reliable.  For a discussion on Dumbledore it does not really matter.  As Headmaster, he was responsible to keep all students safe.  If the marauder's pranks were justified by the injustice they fought, so much the worse for Dumbledore.  If the pranks were truly unjustified, the difference hardly helps his (Dumbledore's) case.  Either way the students had to defend themselves with no intervention from authority.  However, it is fairly clear that James arrived at Hogwarts spoiled and at least somewhat of a brat.  Dumbledore could not afford for Harry to do the same.  Harry was being groomed to be self sacrificing from the moment he entered Hogwarts.  But Dumbledore cannot act directly to effect this.  So what does he do?  He places Harry with family.  On the surface that's a legitimate and nearly unimpeachable decision.  Never mind the abuse, Dumbledore will be blind to it.  Never aware of how bad it was, and sorrowful that it happened at all.  He puts Snape in a position of authority as Potions teacher, but allows him to be a poor, biased, and cruel teacher.  Then he makes the situation worse by making Snape head of Slytherin.  Now Snape can justify his behaviour in terms of the bias his (Snape's) house faces from everyone else in the school.  As head of house, Snape has to show them that someone on the staff will support them right?  No matter what that means to the rest of the school, his house must be his priority; surely you cannot argue about that.  And so Dumbledore remains "blameless," at least in his own view.

Now sure, it isn't entirely fair to hold Dumbledore fully accountable to
Catholic theology when he isn't Catholic.  That isn't to say that Catholic
teachings aren't universally true and applicable, they are.  Rather, I am
allowing that Dumbledore may be granted some leniency because he may honestly
think that his judgements are both cogent and true. To the extent that he is
wrong about either the cogency or the ultimate validity of his values and
judgements, he can be judged to be sinful, but not mortally sinful, and thus not
evil. It is only where he is self deceptive, that is he knows his arguments are
either not cogent or not based on true value propositions, that he can be held
mortally accountable, and thus potentially evil.  In this Dumbledore contrasts
positively with Riddle, who quite frankly doesn't care about either the cogency
or the validity of his decisions. Dumbledore is certainly _less evil_ though
possibly _more morally dangerous_ (in that he is more insidious) than Riddle.

Dumbledore might (almost certainly is) wrong about what the Greater Good looks
like. He is certainly wrong about what he can and cannot do to achieve it. I do,
however, think that it is actually some version of good for the greatest number
of people, and not merely for himself, that guides his actions. The reader can
decide if this is damning him with faint praise, or giving him what little
credit is due.

The quotes attributed to the Oracle of Delphi in _[The Greater
Will](https://archiveofourown.org/works/16234799)_ put it well:[^20200720-1]

> “Power is always useless when it is just possessed, merely collected like a bauble. The honors were meant for a protector. One must wonder how you ended up with them.”[^20200720-1]

> “Mimicry may be the highest form of flattery,” she replied pointedly, “but mockery is just an insult. Goodness is not served by denying innocents their rightful protections in order to advance your own agenda. Goodness is not served by denying justice to those who have been wronged in order to purchase personal favors to be named at a later date. Goodness is not served when knowledge is hidden and innovation stifled in order to preserve the oppression which allows you to keep ahold of all your worthless titles and stolen honors. You are not a good man, Albus, warlock of Britannia.”[^20200720-1]

> “Warlock fits you better than you know,” she stated in echoing tones. “The wizards of Britannia claimed it as a martial title for honoring feats of battle, but it has a far older meaning to Mother Magic, as a title for those who had forsaken their oaths of fidelity and protection, just as you have done.” She sliced her hands through the air as he opened his mouth to refute that accusation. “You will not attempt to spin your inaction as anything but a betrayal. A false show of humility is not a valid excuse for not using the authority granted to you in order to serve the needs of the people who trusted you to act in their best interests over your personal desires. If you truly did not believe you could be trusted with the power imbued in the roles, you should have passed them to another who could.”[^20200720-1]

Interestingly, Wikipedia confirms that "Warlock" does in fact imply both male magic user and betrayer.[^20200720-2]  This contrasts interestingly with "witch,"[^20200720-3] "wizard"[^20200720-4] and "sorcerer"[^20200720-5] that apparently have an etymology of simply being a magic user.  Any work trying to work in the Harry Potter universe has to go fictional at some point, since in true history magic is always associated with the pagan, the satanic, or both.  So it is noteworthy that the common titles they use, "witch" and "wizard," have no negative connotation outside of theology and theologically influenced culture, but that "warlock" would be used as a title when it does.  My guess is that Mrs. Rowling though did _not_ do this on purpose.  It is merely an interesting coincidence that the Wizengamot would chose "warlock" as one of its leadership positions.  

[^20200720-1]: Magi_Silverwolf.  _[The Greater Will](https://archiveofourown.org/works/16234799)_ [Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org/).  Published 2018-10-08.  Last Viewed 2020-07-20. 

[^20200720-2]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/). "[Warlock](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warlock)" last edited 2020-06-29.  Last Viewed 2020-07-20. 

[^20200720-3]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).  "[Witch (word)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Witch_(word))" Last edited 2020-07-08. Last Viewed 2020-07-20. 

[^20200720-4]:  [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).  "[wizard](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/wizard)" Last edited 2020-07-08. Last viewed 2020-07-20. 

[^20200720-5]:  [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).  "[sorcerer](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/sorcerer)" Last edited 2020-07-11. Last viewed 2020-07-20. 

[^20200624-1]: Cooperation with evil is discussed in formal terms by the Seido
Foundation in "Morality of Cooperation in Evil" at
<https://www.ewtn.com/catholicism/library/morality-of-cooperation-in-evil-9965>
Last Viewed 2020-06-24.  There is a handy chart that will help you navigate a
decision tree for which formal term to use at
<http://archphila.org/HHS/pdf/CoopEvilChart.pdf> last viewed 2020-06-24, author
unknown. 

[^20200624-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_
Chapter 37.  Loc 12230 of 13038 American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200624-3]: <http://archphila.org/HHS/pdf/CoopEvilChart.pdf> last viewed
2020-06-24, author unknown. 

[^20180702-2]: <https://musings-of-apathy.fanficauthors.net/Family_Inseparable/Chapter_9/reviews/5/#comments> Last viewed 2018-07-02.  

[^20190301-1]: _“For the Greater Good”: In Defense of Albus Dumbledore_ by Ms. Richa Venkatraman. Published 2017-08-02.  Last viewed 2019-03-01. <http://www.mugglenet.com/2017/08/greater-good-defense-albus-dumbledore/>


[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

