#### Dursleys

* Harry's cupboard is full of spiders
* Harry's cupbard is "dark."  [^20190610-4]
* "Dudley's favorite punching bag was Harry" [^20190610-2]
* Vernon is not just violent towards Harry: 

  > Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his father had
  > hit him round the head for holding them up while he tried to pack
  > his television, VCR, and computer in his sports bag. [^20200513-1]
* What does it mean to be "given a week in the cupboard" given he sleeps there
  nightly anyway?[^20190610-5] Certainly that the door is locked from the
  outside[^20190610-6] at least some of the time, but not all of
  it.[^20190610-8]
* Vernon is not the only one offering potentially severe physical harm to Harry: 

  > Harry paid dearly for his moment of fun. As neither Dudley nor the hedge was
  > in any way hurt, Aunt Petunia knew he hadn't really done magic, but he still
  > had to duck as she aimed a heavy blow at his head with the soapy frying pan.
  > Then she gave him work to do, with the promise he wouldn't eat again until
  > he'd finished. [^20200513-2]
* Incarceration like this is illegal now, and probably frowned upon even then: 

  > Uncle Vernon was as bad as his word. The following morning, he paid a man to
  > fit bars on Harry’s window. He himself fitted a cat-flap in the bedroom
  > door, so that small amounts of food could be pushed inside three times a
  > day. They let Harry out to use the bathroom morning and evening. Otherwise,
  > he was locked in his room around the clock. [^20200513-3]
* Veron strangles Harry in _the Order of the Phoenix_[^20200513-4]
* Harry has some disturbing habits: 

  > “You'd need more than a good sense of fun to liaise with my uncle,” said
  >  Harry darkly. “Good sense of when to duck, more like.” [^20200513-5]

  and then the quote: 

  > Harry ran down the stairs two at a time, coming to an abrupt halt several
  > steps from the bottom, as long experience had taught him to remain out of
  > arm’s reach of his uncle whenever possible.[^20200513-6]
* On the other hand "I accept there’s something strange about you, probably nothing
  a good beating wouldn’t have cured"[^20190610-7] suggests that Harry's abuse has been
  emotional in nature (along with neglect of course) and not physical.
* Dumbledore's most quoted words on the subject come from the meeting in his (Dumbledore's) office just after Sirius dies.

  > Five years ago you arrived at Hogwarts, Harry, safe and whole, as I had
  > planned and intended. Well - not quite whole. You had suffered. I knew you
  > would when I left you on your aunt and uncle's doorstep. I knew I was
  > condemning you to ten dark and difficult years.[^20210128-1]

  This statement is ambiguous in a number of different senses.  Just what did
  Dumbledore know, considering the Dursleys had not acted yet, what does
  Dumbledore mean by "not quite whole," "suffered," and "dark and difficult"?
  each of these can be taken a number of different ways.  His next statement on
  the subject, in book six, sheds somewhat more meaningful light:

  > You have never treated Harry as a son. He has known nothing but neglect and
  > often cruelty at your hands. The best that can be said is that he has at
  > least escaped the appalling damage you have inflicted upon the unfortunate
  > boy sitting between you.[^20210128-2]


There are also some descriptions of Veron's behavior, particularly in the third chapter of
_the Philosopher's Stone_, that may or may not be Veron talking more aggressively
than he acts, and may or may not be figurative language rather than a litteral
description of how he treats Harry.  Overall there is certainly verbal abuse and
neglect.  By today's standards we'd consider the above list sufficient to tack
on physical abuse as well though.  Harry should not have needed to learn to
_habitually_ stay out of reach for example.  From my reading of other people's
comments on this topic, I have gathered that the standards for what constituted
child abuse were more lax in the 1980s (when Harry was growing up), and even
more so in Britain as compared to the United States, but I have no authoritative
evidence of that, just hearsay.  

There is another perspective to consider, this comes from fanfiction, but there
is a ring of truth to it:

> “Your mother’s sacrifice did far more than protect you from Voldemort’s curse
> that night,” Dumbledore explained. “It protected you from your own relatives
> in their home—your aunt and cousin, who share your mother’s blood, and your
> uncle, who is also bound to the charm by his marriage to your aunt. With Lily
> Potter’s protection upon you, they could not harm you.” He held up a hand.
> “Yes, I know they treated you badly—worse than even I suspected. But nothing
> they did could truly have damaged you. They tried to hit you, and they missed,
> you dodged, they lost their nerve, or they simply didn’t hit that hard, like
> your cousin. They tried to starve you, and they “gave up on it,” as you said,
> before you were at serious risk. You see, Harry, they could not have killed
> you, even if they had tried. Nor could they have done you any lasting injury,
> either physical or psychological.”
> 
> Harry sat frozen, his mind racing, trying to reevaluate everything he knew
> about his life according to these revelations. Psychological? What, now?
> 
> Dumbledore noted the look of confusion on his face and continued: “They
> neglected you, insulted you, threatened you, punished you for accidental
> magic, and treated you like their personal house elf. And yet, you shook it
> all off with ease. You picked up at Hogwarts right where you left off,
> well-adjusted, making friends, and enjoying yourself. What you went through,
> Harry, is something no child should have to endure, but you have not only
> endured, but thrived in spite of it, because your mother’s sacrifice placed on
> you the protection of her love—a protection both physical and emotional. Her
> love has always been with you. It flows in your very veins. No matter how much
> those in your physical presence tried to make you feel unloved—relatives or
> not—no matter how much the outside world turned against you, she was always
> with you, supporting you, even if you were not consciously aware of it.
> [^20200610-1]

[^20200610-1]: White_Squirrel.  _His Mother's Love_.  <https://archiveofourown.org/works/14006394/chapters/32253831> Last viewed 2020-06-10. 

[^20190610-2]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 293 of 3996.

[^20190610-3]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 293 of 3996.

[^20190610-4]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 324 of 3996.

[^20190610-5]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 356 of 3996.

[^20190610-6]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 356 of 3996.

[^20190610-8]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 356 of 3996. I need to double check this citation, I'm not sure I didn't confuse it with a different one.

[^20190610-7]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 738 of 3996.

[^20200513-1]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American Kindle edition approx Location 541 of 3996.

[^20200513-2]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_ American Kindle edition approx Location 148 of 4470. 

[^20200513-3]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_ American Kindle edition approx Location 306 of 4470. 

[^20200513-4]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ American Kindle edition approx Location 146 of 13038.

[^20200513-5]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ American Kindle edition approx Location 9606 of 13038.

[^20200513-6]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ American Kindle edition approx Location 611 of 8473.

[^20210128-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ American Kindle edition Locations 12222-12223 of 13038). Pottermore Limited. 

[^20210128-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ (p. 46, Loc 743 of 8473). 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

