[[!toc  startlevel=3]]

## Notes on the Harry Potter Universe

### timeline
* James Potter born 27 March 1960[^20190611-1] 
* thus James, Lilly and Sirius start Hogwarts in 1971. 
* thus they graduate in the 1977-1978 school year.  
* James and Lilly get married between June of 1978 and fall of 1979, a roughly
  18 month window of time for them to get married and for any job he has.
  Sources seem to indicate he may have lived off his inheritance. 
* Harry is born in July 1980. 
* "little to celebrate" for 11 years prior. [^20190610-1]
* Snape becomes the Potions Professor in either fall of 1981 or 1982, but I
  think 1981.[^20200806-4]
* Monday night Potters are attacked. 
* Hagrid, not Sirius, arrives first and gets Harry out of the
  house.[^20200629-4]
* Tuesday Morning people are already talking about what happened to the Potters.
* "Tiny old man" with a "squeaky voice that made passersby stare" - probably
  Flitwick.
* Dumbledore arrives at "nearly midnight." Where has Harry been all day? 

[^20200629-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_
(p. 212). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20190610-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ American
Kindle edition approx Location 179 of 3996.

[^20200806-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ 
(Kindle Location 5323). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

### Clothing

Mrs. Rowling insists that wizards wear robes.[^20200723-4] The problem is that
she claims that this is because wizarding fashion is intentionally frozen in the
16th century.  This is a problem because while academics, clerics, and scholars
wore robes in the 16th century, male fashion varied considerably for those in
other occupations.  This is very much part of era of doublets and
hose.[^20200723-5][^20200723-6] Sometimes guys wore "over-gowns" other decades they did not.
Sometimes the doublets were more or less "skirted."  Some decades codpieces were
in evidence.  For the Hogwarts uniform to be robe based is one thing, but
wizards seem to come from every strata of society.  It is highly unlikely that
they all view themselves as court scholars; surely some of them would have
preferred a more lordly self-image, others a more martial self-image.  The styles
of the century she cites allow for both.  The working classes and farming
families would have wanted something more practical as well, even if they did
use magic in place of manual labour as much as possible and even when somewhat
unreasonable.  Who seriously wears robes with little or nothing under them to do
such classic wizarding things like flying a broom or duelling? 

The real question then is how the girls dress.  Magic allows for greater gender
equality, and the society described in the books _mostly_ supports that, though
it hints that there may be some severe social limitations on married witches,
and what is "proper" versus what is "allowed."  Do the girls consistently wear
long dresses, or do they also adopt activity appropriate garb?  If only the
quidditch players adopt activity appropriate garments, that might well be why
girls playing quidditch is not "proper." 

[^20200723-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
"[Clothing](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/clothing)"
Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20200723-5]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org).
"[1500–1550 in Western European fashion
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1500%E2%80%931550_in_Western_European_fashion)"
Last Edited 2020-05-17.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20200723-6]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org).
"[(1550–1600 in Western European fashion
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1550%E2%80%931600_in_Western_European_fashion)"
Last Edited 2020-06-25.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.


### Greengrass family

Per an interview, Daphne was part of Pansy Parkinson's "gang"[^20200520-1].
This is apparently established as part of book 5, but seems to be fairly
debated.  A word search on the American Kindle edition shows her name only in
relation to the Charms OWL practicals.  Interestingly Pansy, Millicent and a 
Sixth Year girl are members of the Inquisitorial Squad, but Daphne is not.  
Why did Umbridge not trust her?

Even less is available about her younger sister Astoria. Much of what
we do know about her (Astoria) requires taking _Harry Potter and the Cursed Child_ as part
of cannon, something I tend not to do.  Mrs. Rowling says Astoria went "through
a similar (though less violent and frightening) conversion from pure-blood ideals to a more tolerant life view."[^20200701-1]
The interesting thing about this paragraph is that it is nearly all innuendo and
comparison with few direct statements. It says _Daphne_ is a Slytherin, but
nothing of Astoria's sorting.  It says Astoria believed pureblood ideals, but
while Draco's upbringing talks specifically about being a Death Eater
upbringing, there is a curious lack of specificity about Astoria. I find it
curious that Narcissa and Lucius "had high hopes" based on her family's status
on the Sacred Twenty-Eight.  If her father had been a Death Eater along with
Lucius, surely they would have more than merely that to base their hopes on?

[^20200520-1]:  [TIME](http://time.com) (unknown author).  "Rowling Answers 10 Questions About
Harry" published 2007-12-19.  Last viewed 2020-05-20.  <http://content.time.com/time/specials/2007/printout/0,29239,1690753_1695388_1695569,00.html> 

[^20200701-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. "[Draco
Malfoy](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/draco-malfoy)"
<https://www.wizardingworld.com/> Last Viewed 2020-07-1. 

### Longbottom Family

Lots of fanfiction puts the Longbottom family into the nobility.  I see no
indication of Augusta Longbottom being called "Lady Longbottom" outside of
fanfiction.  We have few descriptions of her, but her fox fur is described as
"moth eaten," which means that if they are part of the nobility, they are
impoverished. 

[^20200706-2]: [Harry Potter fandom wiki](https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki).

### Parchment and Quills

I think the use of parchment and quills is a an example of Wizarding culture
being deliberately antiquarian.  There may also be an element of exclusivity -
it takes practice to use a quill with any degree of skill that pureblood
children will have but that first generation children will utterly lack.  There
may also be a sense of exclusivity in a second sense, parchment is *expensive*
and the extensive use of parchment even stupid little notes and homework
assignments will help keep poor families away from magical knowledge.  If you
cannot afford parchment, your children cannot do as well at Hogwarts, and thus
cannot do as well in later life. This came to me when I was reading a fanfiction
that talked about not just Harry using a fountain pen, but that many pureblood
wives "secretly" did the same for their (extensive) correspondence.[^20200816-3]
For whatever reason, it occurred to me to look up the steel nibbed dip pens that
predated fountain pens, wondering when in non-magical (actual) history pens
started to replace the use of quills.  I was really quite surprised.  Apparently
pens go *way* back, the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org) was very Britain
centric (which is actually fine for my purposes), but apparently our earliest
pen (a copper one) dates from around 410, just as the Romans were pulling out of
Britain.[^20200816-4] It does not come out and state it, but my guess is that
for a long time fine metal work was *really* expensive, so quills remain the
standard writing utensil until the mass production of steel pens in
1822.[^20200816-5]  Interestingly, according to the article, these type of pens
are still favoured over fountain pens for calligraphy and other artistic works
that require precision and varied thicknesses.[^20200816-6]  

From this I can draw a couple of conclusions.  Magical users would dislike
fountain pens, because they seem drawn to multi-coloured inks (which are more
difficult with fountain pens), and because arts like ancient runes would need
much the same precision that writing calligraphy does.  The dip pen on the other
hand, should show no marked difference from a quill for writing your runes.
Both would be substandard to a brush - there is a reason that Chinese and
Japanese languages are painted, not written when you look at the really fancy
stuff. The dip pen could further be _engraved_ with runes.  In the books you see
spell correcting quills, and others with anti-cheating charms.  I can see both
of these being done more reliably with runes.  You want a dicto-quill?  Again,
you can see how this can be reproduced.  

Moreover, magical users are clearly drawn to the aesthetic quality of a fancy
feather.  Fountain pens _can_ be artistic, but are generally fairly utilitarian.
Your dip pen on the other hand could be a work of art.  I did a quick Google
search on "steel nib feather" for example, and you can just imagine a wizard
using many of those. 

Paper and parchment is a bit more messy.  Paper is *really* old, perhaps as far
back as 300 B.C. in China.[^20200816-7]  However, it took a while for paper to
reach Europe, sometime around the 11th Century.[^20200816-8]  Paper was
originally viewed with disdain, unworthy for formal communication, or important
works[^20200816-9]; something that would definitely influence the magically
community.  However, it seems that by the 16th Century or so, paper had largely
replaced parchment, driven largely by the printing press.[^20200816-10] The
Wizarding world does seem to have a sufficient trade in books to stock at least
two book stores (one in Hogsmeade and one in Diagon Alley), and I am quite
confident that the books give us a view of the press that the Quibbler is
printed on.  This means that they do use paper books, and paper periodicals.

Any number of fanfiction works I've read have speculated that there might be a
magical reason for using parchment instead of paper.  Most of these have not
really made much sense given the above.  However one I came across recently
does.  

> Paper doesn’t take magic terribly well: parchment is a single piece of
animal skin, a unitary object. Paper is laid fibre from multiple trees, a
composite object and as such tricky to get predictable results out of when you
enchant it. The more you know, et cetera.[^20200819-1]

The reference is to some of the fragmentary descriptions we have from
McGonagall's lectures on transfiguration.  You have to be able to visualise the
object that you are working your magic on.  In this light it is actually easier
to see why it might be troublesome to enchant paper.  It would be all too easy
to have a charm take hold on only a subset of the fibres involved, and thus
behave erratically across the document.  This makes a strong argument for using
parchment (or vellum) for documents that are *actually magical in nature* (like
contracts, tests charmed against cheating, official government or banking forms,
etc), but not for standard every day things (like homework, class notes, and
letters (unless you are including privacy charms)).  

You would then want writing utensils that work equally well on both, but while
I can't speak to how a fountain pen or ball point pen might work on parchment, a
quill or dip pen should both work equally well on any decent quality paper.

[^20200819-1]: AndrewWolfe. _[The Ghost of Privet Drive](https://archiveofourown.org/works/21500365)_
[Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org) Last Updated 202008-14. Last Viewed 2020-08-19. 

[^20200816-3]: Sinyk. _[Angry Harry and the Seven](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9750991)_ 
[FanFiction](https://www.fanfiction.net/). Last Updated 2013-10-22. Last Viewed
2020-08-16. 

[^20200816-4]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/).
"[Dip pen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dip_pen)" Last Edited 2020-07-24. Last Viewed 2020-08-16

[^20200816-5]: Ibid.

[^20200816-6]: Ibid.

[^20200816-7]: ©Paper Sizes. "[The History Of Paper](https://www.papersizes.org/paper-history-overview.htm)"
[International Paper Sizes and Formats](https://www.papersizes.org/) Last viewed 2020-08-16.

[^20200816-8]: Ibid.

[^20200816-9]: Reginmund. "[The Rise and Fall of Parchment](http://www.allempires.com/article/index.php?q=parchment)"
[All Empires Online History Community](http://www.allempires.com/) 2007-01-10. Last Viewed 2020-08-16.

[^20200816-10]: Ibid.

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

