## Harry Potter

### Personality 

See the [[Dursleys]] for some discussion on just how much and in what ways Harry
is abused.  That he is abused to at least some extent is pretty much undeniable.
The only real question is how does he survive it?  How much of his personality
is in fact reflective of, to be brutally honest, damage, how much is innate, how
much is resilience, how much is residual from the first year when he was loved?
How much, being hard to explain with those answers, needing some sort of
hand-wavy answer of "the story requires it for his character to work"
essentially requires something along the lines of his mother's sacrifice not
just magically protected him from Tom, but also magically protected him from the
worst of the effects of his upbringing? 

[_Don't Touch Me_](https://archiveofourown.org/works/702684) by ivybelle
explores as a one-shot from when Harry and Ginny are dating the idea that
perhaps Harry is simply really really good at hiding his reactions.[^20200527-1]

The sorting is increasingly a sore point for me.  A huge body of fanfiction
authors want to put Harry in Slytherin.  I know why - they are listening to the
Sorting Hat:

> “Hmm,” said a small voice in his ear. “Difficult. Very difficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a
> bad mind either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes and a nice thirst to prove yourself, now that’s
> interesting. . . . So where shall I put you?” 
> 
> Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, *Not Slytherin, not Slytherin.* 
> 
> “Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voice. “Are you sure? You could be great, you know, it’s all
> here in your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that no? Well, if you’re
> sure better be GRYFFINDOR!”[^20200602-1]

However, are cunning or ambition really defining traits for Harry?  He might
have liked his scar in the first chapters, but do not let the movies fool you,
that does not last long.  Even in that first Leaky Cauldron scene the books
describe a very different Harry, one who is overwhelmed, not pleased by his
fame.  Once at Hogwarts, Harry finds the attention annoying pretty much right
from the start, and will spend the next 7 years *hating* his fame.  This dislike
of attention will grow so strong that Harry will have trouble accepting praise
not only for being the Boy Who Lived (understandable, he does not remember doing
anything to earn that) but even for his skills on a broom, the fight with the
basilisk, and the Tri-Wizard Tournament.  He keeps switching between being
annoyed when he's babied (by Mrs. Weasley or other adults), and crediting
everything to luck precisely because he *does not* seek fame.  

This does not mesh well with the ambition that Slytherin is known for to me.
Indeed, Harry's loyalty to his friends, his willingness to forgive them with
very little in the way of a real apology, and readiness to risk everything for
them speaks more strongly of Hufflepuff than any of his actual actions do of
Slytherin.  

Originally I thought that Rowling tried too hard to force the parallel between Harry and
Riddle, playing up that Harry could have been in Slytherin but for his choices.
Recently a different theory was presented in an interview.[^20200731-3]  The
Sorting Hat accidentally attempted to sort *Riddle* and not *Harry* in
attempting the placement in Slytherin.  The Sorting Hat was not intended to sort
a person with a bit of someone else's soul in them.  This confused the hat, and
as a result it wasn't sure which person's traits to sort based on.  The hat, not
being truly alive, is not really able to reconsider or learn, so it stands by
its opinions.  It will do so until/unless it were to be placed on Harry's head
after the bit of Riddle's soul is removed. 

In short, perhaps the boy that Harry *could* have been - abused as he was in reality -
should have shown more Slytherin tendencies, but the actual Harry that we see in
the books would make a *really really poor* Slytherin, a fairly good Hufflepuff,
and an uncertain Ravenclaw (depending on how much he would have been willing to
use that "not a bad mind" mentioned above away from Ron's influence).  

[^20200731-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling et al. 
    "[Anelli, Melissa, John Noe and Sue Upton. 
		"PotterCast Interviews J.K. Rowling, part one." PotterCast #130, 17
    December 2007.](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2007/1217-pottercast-anelli.html)" 
    [Accio-Quote](http://www.accio-quote.org/) Last viewed 2020-07-31. 

### Appearance

On a truly trivial note, the scene from Snape's memory showing the confrontation
after the OWL tests shows that James purposefully messed up his
hair.[^20200710-1]  Harry's hair was unfix-ably messy.  Unfortunately, we know 
that while James did mess up his hair, it was also unfix-ably untidy.[^20200710-2]  
The most likely explanation of this is that it is purely genetic, but lots of 
authors have had fun speculating a magical origin for this hair.  I read one 
idea that I found really amusing, that Harry's hair was a prank that James 
played on Lily.[^20200710-3]  As I said, the book 1 evidence probably contradicts 
the theory, but it is a great one. 

### Inheritance

One of the things that has bothered me since I read the seventh book is Harry's
inheritance.  When I started reading fanfiction, and from author's notes started
learning more about the interviews and comments that Mrs. Rowling has given over
the years, it has bothered me even more.  Bellatrix has a vault deep deep in the
caverns under Gringotts, and while it has lots of gold in it, it also seems to
function as a storage room for heirlooms.[^20200725-1]  Harry on the other hand
has a low security vault in the upper levels of the caverns, containing only
gold.[^20200725-2]  The contents of Harry's vault are not really important until
the seventh book when we have Bellatrix's to compare against.  Even then, it
might not be important, except that we find out, also in the seventh book, that
1) the house in Godric's Hollow is still mostly standing (part of one side is
missing the roof, but that's about it) and 2) it has become a monument of
sorts.  

Now we know that Harry's parents had taken the family in hiding, and I
believe we read somewhere that they had not just defied Voldemort the requisite
three times, but had had several close calls _after_ the prophesy is given as he
hunted for them. If this is true, it is safe to say that the Godric's Hollow
house probably was not their original residence when they first got married.
But even if some prior residence was destroyed as a total loss, 2 adults do not,
even with an infant, live full time in hiding in a house with nothing around
them.  Books, furniture, probably some photographs, maybe some pictures, the
Potters would have possessed _things._  What became of their personal property?
Why is it that per the "extra" non-book content we have that it seems that Harry
inherited Grimmauld Place from Sirius, but nothing but gold from his parents? 

James came from an old family.  A family like the Potters should have had land,
even if the house on it was destroyed.  Fleeing and hiding from Riddle was not
the time to dispose of it, in fact I suspect that James would have intended to
rebuild.  Even if he did not, the middle of a war you are losing is not the time
to sell your land.  Even if he did sell the land, why is their no high security
vault with heirlooms?  Perhaps the Potters were not as rich as the Blacks or the
Lestranges, but Mrs. Rowling describes them as well off, old, and influential.
There should have been heirlooms, and I doubt they were all kept in the house -
particularly if the family was being hunted.  

Fanfiction authors seem to largely agree with me.  Some solve this by giving
Harry such a vault that he gets access to when he is either emancipated or turns
seventeen.  Others say that Dumbledore essentially stole everything.  Still
others make James a fool who liquidated everything to fund the Order of the
Phoenix, only for Harry to discover Dumbledore is in fact evil.  Whichever you
chose, Harry should have inherited more than he seems to have. One interesting twist is that the second vault may require something (a ring or a key) to unlock that was itself locked in the vault in question, because _everything_ the Potters owned was placed in the vault without forethought.[^20210322-1]

### Harry's official OWL results

Harry's official grades are as follows:[^20210304-7]
[[!table data="""
Astronomy | A
Care of Magical Creatures | E
Charms | E
Defense Against the Dark Arts | O
Divination | P
Herbology | E
History of Magic | D
Potions | E
Transfiguration | E
"""]]

Any story needs to give an actual reason to deviate from these.  Failure to do so introduces a noticeable discontinuity to your story, it disrupts the flow from cannon to fanfiction in a way I dislike. 

### What if Harry had a different wand? 
All quotes from the Ollivander pages on Pottermore. See [[Wands|Magic]]

Cedar: "strength of character and unusual loyalty" "I have never yet met the
owner of a cedar wand whom I would care to cross, especially if harm is done to
those of whom they are fond."

Cypress: "the brave, the bold and the self-sacrificing: those who are unafraid
to confront the shadows in their own and others’ natures."

Ebony: "the courage to be themselves. Frequently non-conformist, highly
individual or comfortable with the status of outsider," "will hold fast to his
or her beliefs, no matter what the external pressure, and will not be swayed
lightly from their purpose."

Fir: ‘the survivor’s wand’, "demand staying power and strength of purpose in
their true owners" 

Holly: "help overcoming a tendency to anger and impetuosity" "engaged in some
dangerous and often spiritual quest." 

Larch: "wands of hidden talents and unexpected effects, which likewise describes
the master who deserves it."

Rowan: "clear-headed and the pure-hearted"

Willow: "some (usually unwarranted) insecurity" "those of greatest potential"

Clearly Mrs. Rowling chose holly for Harry's temper and because she has set up
the defeat of Riddle very much like a quest.  I include it in this list because
Harry's temper *is* a key consideration in his personality, whether it is
demanding his letter, berating his friends for failing to write, or his
antagonism with Umbridge and Snape.  

That being said, cedar, cypress and ebony would work well for him, and part of
me is surprised she did not pick fir.  Larch, rowan and willow would lend
themselves to a more alternate universe tale, while still, I think, allowing you
to keep the essence of who Harry is as a character intact.  

[^20200710-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9456-9457. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200710-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ p.
    208. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210322-1]: TheBeardedOne.
    _[Little Whinging Pet Shop](https://archiveofourown.org/works/27669059)_
    [Chapter 22: Harry Roth - Expanded](https://archiveofourown.org/works/27669059/chapters/73491705)
		[ArchiveOfOurOwn](https://archiveofourown.org) Published 2020-11-22. Updated 2021-03-05. Last Viewed 2021-03-22.

[^20200710-3]: Tom Kristal. 
    _[Prongs Final Prank](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4279550/1/Prongs-Final-Prank)_  
	[FanFiction by FictionPress](https://www.fanfiction.net/) Published 2008-03-26.  
	Last Viewed 2020-07-10. 

[^20200602-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone_
    Location 1527 of 3996. 

[^20200527-1]: ivybelle.  _Don't Touch Me_, 
    [Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org/) last viewed 2020-05-27. 

[^20200725-1]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ better citation needed. 

[^20200725-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ better citation needed.

[^20210304-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ pp. 85-86. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

