## Hermione Granger

[[An old post|The_Half_Blood_Prince]] reminds me that it has been so long since
I first read the Harry Potter books that I cannot really trust my memories of my
first impressions.  Whatever I may once have thought, as I have come to think
more deeply about the series, Hermione is no longer one of my favourite
characters.  I think that is why when I first started reading fanfiction I was
so strongly drawn to the cannon [[Harry]]/[[Ginny]] pairing.  Of the female
characters in the books, few get consistently positive portrayals, and of those,
only [[Harry]] only *really* relates to Hermione, [[Ginny]], and [[Luna]].
[[Ginny]] and [[Luna]] are long enough topics to deserve their own pages.  

I do not think I really started to understand why I was reacting against
Hermione though until I started to read that class of fanfiction where
characters are reading their own books.  I think it was reading other people's
reactions to Hermione framed through this media that allowed my thoughts to
finally codify.

Then, when I started writing these [[Notes]], I find that someone has come
before me and done a sufficient job ranting about the way Mrs. Rowling failed to
call Hermione to account[^20200706-3] that I would struggle to do better. If
that is not enough, in some ways, [this][TSWoHA] fake interview for a position
in the Department of Mysteries does even better.[^20210324-2]

Based on an interview she quotes, Ms. Onim asserts that Hermione is essentially
a very flat character with the emotional maturity of a very young (she says four
years old) girl.[^20200706-4] I am not sure I would go quite that far; I think
that Hermione does grow some over the course of the series.  

I do think that Mrs. Rowling became, to an extent, a victim of her own success
with the latter half of the series, from approximately Goblet of Fire on.  And
thus I do agree that she (Mrs. Rowling) was probably lazy and used Hermione to
provide information that would have better come from [[Ron]], or to solve
situations that [[Harry]] could better have handled.  It is odd that the
prophesy speaks of one who would be Riddle's equal, but that [[Harry]] is, in
many ways, carried along right up to the last scene in the Great Hall.  

On the other hand, he need not have been.  Where did [[Harry]] and Hermione
disagree?  

* They disagreed over the Firebolt, call that one a draw - it did come
from Black, but it was safe.
* They disagreed over the rescue in 5th year.  Hermione was right, but she
  handled it badly.
* They disagreed over Malfoy as a death eater.  [[Harry]] was right.
* They disagreed over going to Godric's Hollow.  Again a draw - it was a trap,
  but there was a horcrux there that could have been destroyed if they had
  planned better. 
* They disagreed over a Horcrux in Hogwarts.  [[Harry]] was right.
* They disagreed over the Hollows.  We are unsure over the importance of being
  Master of Death, so we cannot be sure how to call this one.
* They disagree over House Elves.  As the article says, we lack the information
  to call this one.
* They disagree over the potions book.  Despite the use of Sectumsempra, I think
  [[Harry]] was right on this one.   Certainly Hermione's *reasoning* was wrong even
  if her conclusion was partially correct.

In other words, if [[Harry]] had been allowed to stand up to Hermione, he could
have been allowed to show case his own reasoning skills and to have taken charge
more.  He would then have been more of the leader, more of Riddle's equal.

But that's almost an aside.  The real thing that upsets me is the stuff that is
covered in that essay, plus the fact that if you pay attention in _Prisoner of
Azkaban_, Hermione is in fact incredibly insensitive.  I am not faulting her
for buying Crookshanks.  She is not obligated to avoid owning a cat just because
[[Ron]] owns a rat.  Hedwig should have been just as prone to attacking Scabbers as
Crookshanks, the reality of the pets chosen for Hogwarts is that some of them
are predators of others of them. Owls eat small cats if they can, cats eat small
owls if they can.  Both will kill toads if they are given a chance.  Rats aren't
even on the approved list, probably precisely because the two most common pets
will so commonly hunt them. 

The problem is not her choice of pet, the problem is her attitude.  Hermione is
headless and uncaring.  Sure it is natural that Crookshanks would hunt Scabbers.
*So why would Hermione carry him into the boy's dorm with her?* We never hear of
any other cats wandering around the common room, any of which would be equally
likely to attack Scabbers.  Presumably these other cats are kept contained in
dorm rooms when their owners are not actively playing with them.  Why is
Hermione never held responsible for Crookshank's habit of wandering around
campus? Sure Mrs. Noris does, but are there really only two cats in Hogwarts
when it is one of the three approved pets? I think it far more likely that all
the other cats are *kept contained.*  Strange cats would fight if they were not
kept relatively segregated. Alternately, perhaps magical cat pets are
normally abnormally well behaved.  If that is the case, Crookshanks is *quite*
the exception, and Hermione should have been called to *do something* about it,
or send him home.  Worse, while she does burst into tears now and then, she
never does express sorrow for the pain her cat has caused [[Ron]].  If my cat
ate my best friend's pet, I might not blame the cat, but I would apologise for
allowing it to happen. 

It really comes down to the same thing when you look at Hermione's reaction to
Fleur Delacour.  The girls at Hogwarts universally hate Fleur because the boys
are universally attracted to her.  Honestly, this is one thing that I have
trouble with about [[Ginny]], but it is even worse for Hermione to be falling into
this trap.  Fleur is part Veela, and males unconsciously and *against their will*
react to Veela.  Sure, with sufficient will power they can resist, but Mrs.
Rowling makes it seem that any male that lacks that level of will power is to be
despised.  I am sorry, if a Veela's power is to mean anything, the ability to
resist it cannot be common.  If the ability to resist it is *un*common, then you
should not despise or deride a guy just because he lacks that ability.  We might
admire someone's photographic memory, but we are not going to ridicule someone
who lacks it.  In point of fact, this fits with what Mrs. Rowling writes - Fleur
is attracted to Bill *because* he is that rare male who does not react.  This has
been so rare in her life as to stand out.  

Hermione researches *everything* impulsively.  She might not have known much
about Veela at the world cup, but after seeing the guys react to them there, she
would have read about them in the Hogwarts library.  She would have known that
[[Ron]]'s reaction was involuntary.  What Fleur is doing is roughly equivalent to
the imperious curse.  Read the description from the World Cup and then read the
description from the false Moody's lesson.  They are not precisely the same, but
the similarities are very very real.  [[Harry]] describes both as a pleasant
feeling that makes it hard to think, hard to consider disagreeing, makes him
*want* to go long.  It would not surprise me if Veela were considered "dark"
creatures,[^20200707-1] and there would be good reason for it.  Fleur is not
evil, she dislikes the effect she has on the males around her, and a "dark"
creature would either not care or would active revel in her power over the
helpless males.  You could, however, understand a government who either did not
make that fine distinction, or who judged the entire race of Veela based on the
action of a subset who *did* abuse the ability. 

Hermione might not have liked that [[Ron]] did react, but she would have known all
of this back story.  She should have either despised Fleur as an evil dark
creature and have given [[Ron]] a pass, or she would recognise that Fleur dislikes
the effect, and champion her as a misunderstood and oppressed magical species
just as she does the house elves.  If the later, she would have given Fleur a pass.
Blaming both for the effect is basically displaying the worst of shallow female 
jealousy.  It is the kind of behaviour that she would normally ascribe to Pansy.

Hermione's relationship with her own parents is one of the more curious things
in the series.  She seems to spend less and less time with her parents, and by
the summer between sixth and seventh year, is falls into classical magical
thinking.  Her decision to remove her parents memories of having a child
*without consulting them*, however well intentioned, is condescending and
paternalistic - an attitude wholly inappropriate for a daughter/parent
relationship.  Like the incident with the firebolt, her conclusions and thus
actions might in the end be the right ones, but her reasoning is all wrong.  

Overall it is really easy to fall into a Hermione bashing trap.  I do not want
to do that.  I think Hermione is an eminently redeemable character.  She means
well, is regularly very generous, and highly loyal.  She just needs to learn.
To learn that authority can fail you, both books and teachers.  To learn that
she might be very intelligent, but she is can still make mistakes, and that
sometimes those she regularly corrects will point those mistakes out.  To
recognise others strengths and accept competition.  But the only way she can do
that is if she is forced to face consequences.  Not necessarily world or
relationship ending consequences, but she does have to be called to account.
When she is heartless, she has to face that she's hurt someone.  When she's
wrong, it has to be pointed out.  

Sometimes that means that you lose a friend, perhaps (hopefully) only
temporarily, but sometimes permanently.  I would hope that Hermione and
[[Harry]] would recover from the break in their relationship that should have
happened in third year.  If it did not happen then, I do not think they would
have time (in the books we see) for them to recover from the events of sixth
year, though it is anyone's guess which specific event would be one too many.

[TSWoHA]: <https://www.fanfiction.net/s/5858832>

[^20200707-1]: Yanna N. 
    "[Veelas – What Exactly Are The Slavic Seductresses From Harry Potter?](https://www.slavorum.org/veelas-what-exactly-are-the-slavic-seductresses-from-harry-potter/)" 
    [The Official Slavorum](https://www.slavorum.org/) Last Viewed 2020-07-07. 
    [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/) "[Samodiva (folklore)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samodiva_(folklore))" Last Viewed 2020-07-07. 

[^20210324-2]: HarnGin.
    _[HJG: The Smartest Witch of Her Age?](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/5858832)_
    Published: 2010-03-31. Last Viewed: 2021-03-24.

[^20200706-4]: Ms. Vivian Onim. "[Why is Hermione never portrayed as wrong in
    the Harry Potter books? Practically everything she does is praised, and her
    flaws seem to lessen with each book until she’s basically perfect by the end,
    why is this?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-Hermione-never-portrayed-as-wrong-in-the-Harry-Potter-books-Practically-everything-she-does-is-praised-and-her-flaws-seem-to-lessen-with-each-book-until-she-s-basically-perfect-by-the-end-why-is-this)"
    [Quora](https://www.quora.com/) 2018-08-08.  Last Viewed 2020-07-06. 

[^20200706-3]: Ms. Vivian Onim. "[Why is Hermione never portrayed as wrong in
    the Harry Potter books? Practically everything she does is praised, and her
    flaws seem to lessen with each book until she’s basically perfect by the end,
    why is this?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-Hermione-never-portrayed-as-wrong-in-the-Harry-Potter-books-Practically-everything-she-does-is-praised-and-her-flaws-seem-to-lessen-with-each-book-until-she-s-basically-perfect-by-the-end-why-is-this)"
    [Quora](https://www.quora.com/) 2018-08-08.  Last Viewed 2020-07-06. 

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
