## Hogwarts

### General Info

#### [[Class Schedule|Class_Schedule_Rant]]

#### Punishments

During Harry's time there, Filch constantly complains about the punishments he
is and is not allowed to inflict.  I do not know as much about the change in
societal norms on school punishments in British boarding schools as I would need
to know in order to fully evaluate what happens at Hogwarts.  That being said,
we do know that punishments were more extreme not all that long in the past.

> Mrs. Weasley grinned, her eyes twinkling. “Your father and I had been for a
> nighttime stroll,” she said. “He got caught by Apollyon Pringle he was the
> caretaker in those days your father’s still got the marks.”[^20200720-9]

Note that Mrs. Weasley is not expressing any negative emotion here.  She's
recounting something she expects Harry and Bill to hear and accept without much
surprise.  A Guardian article that is the top Google result when I try to look
up corporal punishment in British schools tells me that Harry probably never
experienced any, but quite possibly heard about it.[^20200720-10]

[^20200720-9]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_ (Kindle Locations
9206-9208). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200720-10]: Mr. Jon Walter. "[Why I'm glad corporal punishment is now only
found in books](https://www.theguardian.com/childrens-books-site/2016/jul/01/corporal-punishment-jon-walter)". 
[The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/) 2016-07-01.  Last viewed
2020-07-20.  The article gives dates for different kinds of Schools. Looking at
schools Harry likely attended, 1986 for British state schools, and 2000 for
Scottish private schools. 

### Students

[Harry's
Yearmates](https://mugglenet.com/2016/03/the-revised-forty/)[^20200419-1] is
probably the best source for information, though _Secrets of the
Classlist_[^20200630-1] also
contains a ton.  The two disagree on a few things. Some of this has been
corrected by Mrs. Rowling,[^20200630-3] most of it has not. In general, the latter is
better researched, the former easier to find information in. Information on the
class lists for pretty much any other year is entirely absent. One would think
that in an age where people obsessively wiki things (myself not really
excluded), someone would have compiled the available data, but if so I have not
found it.

One of the problems with the above two sources is that I've ended up with 6
first generation wizards, 11 halfboods and 18 purebloods in Harry's class.  This
gives me a class that is 45% pureblooded, despite Mr. Weasley being quoted as
saying that purebloods are dying out, and that most families are
halfblooded.[^20200817-1]  Some of that may be the influence of the first Riddle
war, where entire families were wiped out.  I imagine the halfblooded families
were disproportionately affected by that.  If there should be about 1000
students at Hogwarts,[^20200817-2] then we should have 35-36 per house per year,
not 40 per year total.  If we had 140 students in Harry's year, then the
18 purebloods would be only 13% of the class, and the muggleborn only 4%.  

That assumes that all 116 students killed by Riddle are halfblooded (or at least
that the ones that were pureblooded would be in different years), which is
probably not totally true but more nearly true than not.  However, there is
another interesting possibility.  As best I can recall, _the Deathly Hallows_
never says what happens to the first generation wizards who should have been
part of that year's first year class.  We know that some of the older ones went
into hiding, some of them successfully, some not.[^20200819-2] On the other
hand, it seems like at least some of them attended Hogwarts anyway, based on the
people present in the Room of Requirement when Harry makes it
there.[^20200819-3]  

Another possibility is that the Death Eaters used contacts
within the Ministry of Magic's Accidental Magic Reversal Squad or the Improper
Use of Magic office to get word of under aged magic users, and to kill the muggle
ones.[^20200819-4]  If so, the same work suggests that they may have killed
*fewer* of them in the years between the two Riddle wars, but not completely
stopped.  This would artificially deflate the number of first generation wizards
not just in Harry's year, but in all of the classes we see in the books.  While
Mr. Weasley's "Muggle Protection Act" argues against this idea, it does seem
believable of Umbridge and those like her who set up the laws under Pius
Thicknesse's puppet government. 

One of the other interesting questions is how you would handle an extra 29 or 30
students per house per year.  At 10 students per house per year, the common
rooms hold 70 students; at 35 they hold 245.  The former figure is big enough it
does not sound like it would really work - how would that many students actually
survive trying to occupy that space as their primary place to relax every
evening? The latter is frankly impossible.  It means that each common room has
nearly as many people as the entire school does at the 10/house/year figure. 

Like I do below when I look at teachers, I am tempted to use _[Stalky &
Co.](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/3006)_ by Rudyard Kipling as a secondary
source to course correct.  That book had what sounds very like a common room per
year for the younger students, with the older students of each house broken out
into "studies" - groups of 3-5 students sharing a common living/sleeping space.
The space sounds like more than a Hogwarts dorm room but less than a suite.  

Gryffindor does not seem to have any corollary to _Stalky_'s studies.  However,
it seems reasonable that it might have multiple common rooms, the rest of which
are shutdown and disused.  Having pre-teens mixed in with your upper form
students studying for their OWLs and NEWTs seems less than ideal, on the other
hand having a common room maintained for 30 or 40 students when each can
(apparently) hold 70 probably means too little supervision given the
proportionate lack of staff.  

If you put 1st and 2nd year together, 3rd and 4th year together, and assume not
everyone came back for NEWTs, then you have 3 common rooms, 2 at 70ish each, and
one that is variably sized depending on the size of the two NEWT classes.
However, it probably works reasonably well as NEWT students are too busy (not to
mention being older anyway) to be too rowdy.  Assign a junior teacher to monitor
the junior forms for the day time hours in shifts, and the prefects are
responsible for keeping the house quiet after curfew.  That might work. 

[^20200817-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  I forget which book this is in.

[^20200817-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. "[About the Books: transcript of J.K.
Rowling's live interview on
Scholastic.com](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2000/1000-scholastic-chat.htm)"
[Accio Quote](http://www.accio-quote.org/) 2000-10-16. Last Viewed 2020-08-17. 

[^20200819-2]:  I'm assuming that both Dean Thomas and the Death Eaters would
have regarded Dean as a first generation wizard.  We are told Dean did not know
about his father, and if the Death Eaters did, they would have considered him a
blood traitor anyway. Thus that makes at least one student who went into hiding
unsuccessfully. 

[^20200819-3]: It certainly does not mention nearly enough people coming through
the portrait tunnel, and pretty much his entire class, plus both Creevy boys
seem to be there.  Get a citation for this.

[^20200819-4]: AndrewWolfe. _[The Ghost of Privet Drive](https://archiveofourown.org/works/21500365)_ 
[Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org) Last Updated 2020-08-14. Last Viewed 2020-08-19.

#### Students starting in 1987

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1987.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1988

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1988.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1989

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1989.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1990

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1990.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1991

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1991.dsv"]]

Mrs. Rowling's original notes put Kevin Entwhistle in Ravenclaw[^20200701-3], but there are
too many Ravenclaws and too many boys for her seeming desire for symmetry. Given
my [[argument about how students would be sorted|Class_and_Blood]], I think he
mutated to a Hufflepuff girl.  Based on the same logic, Rivers is almost
certainly a pureblood, but might be a halfbood. 

The [[same argument|Class_and_Blood]] suggests the ambiguity of the Weasley
social class. 

Lots of fanfiction uses an extra female character named Fay Dunbar as one of the
girls in Harry's year.  This apparently comes from the _Harry Potter and the
Half-Blood Prince_ video game.[^20200706-2]  I see no indication in the wiki
article that Mrs. Rowling had influence in naming the extra characters in the
game versions. Unless I see otherwise, I'm going to assume that Fay and Sophie
are the same person, and will probably go with Sophie as the name.

"[Fay Dunbar](https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Fay_Dunbar#Behind_the_scenes)"
Last Viewed 2020-07-06. 

#### Students starting in 1992

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1992.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1993

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1993.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1994

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1994.dsv"]]

#### Students starting in 1995

[[!table format=dsv file="fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/ClassOf1995.dsv"]]

### Teachers

* [[Albus Dumbledore|Dumbledore]]
* [[Minerva McGonagall|McGonagall]]
* [[Severus Snape|Snape]]

In more general terms, what is the role of the head of each house?
[[McGonagall]] shows up to intervene in Gryffindor's internal discipline only in
Harry's third year.[^20200811-1]  Harry finds Luna wandering the halls barefoot,
posting flyers listing her stolen stuff, and Flitwick does nothing.[^20200811-2]
I have a page dedicated to [[McGonagall]], and it would be hard to write too
much here that would not also go there, so these two examples will have to
suffice for now.  It seems that the school expects the prefects to run the
school.  From reading other books, I think this might be typical of British
boarding schools, but I think that most schools have a fall back mechanism when
that fails.  _[Stalky & Co.](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/3006)_ by Rudyard
Kipling comes to mind.  I suspect that is probably the fairest account of
boarding school life you will find in British literature.  It is certainly
idealised, no doubt in a lot of ways, but if you read carefully you can tell
there is a lot of bullying, it is a rough life, but it is kept sufficiently in
check that most of them come out of it … typically British.  I suspect some of
the problems in British society are because it was not kept _sufficiently_ in
check after all. But I am going off on a tangent.  

Look at the roles that play out in _Stalky_ versus _Harry Potter_.  In _Stalky_
we see prefects (or at least their equivalent, I forget if the exact title is
the same) giving out discipline, including corporal punishment, but each house
has a head that advocates for its students, steps in for discipline problems
within the house beyond the scope or abilities of the prefects, and is generally
present and visible not just as a teacher, but _as a head of house_.  The Head
is called in for exceptional problems, and if I recall, the punishment is made
especially severe to discourage "bothering the Head."  Does any of this sound
like Hogwarts?  At Hogwarts every problem most likely not at all, otherwise by
the prefects, and finally, by Dumbledore with [[Snape]] attending as advisor, no
matter who is involved.  Never mind [[McGonagall]] is Deputy Head, and therefore
more logically the advisor at that point, we need a more Charles Dickens feel about
it.  Which is probably precisely the point. 

[^20200811-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_.
Pottermore. American Kindle Edition.  Better citation needed. 

[^20200811-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  I don't recall which book this is in.
Better citation needed. 

[^20200701-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  <https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Harry_Potter_and_Me?file=Pagenotes.jpg>

[^20200419-1]: Mugglenet.  _The Revised Forty_
[MuggleNet](https://mugglenet.com) last viewed 2020-04-19.

[^20200630-1]: Ms. Diana Summers. _Secrets of the Classlist: Harry Potter and
the Original Forty Classmates_  Copyright 2011,2014. Amazon Kindle Direct
Publishing. 

[^20200630-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. "[The Original
Forty](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/the-original-forty)"
<https://www.wizardingworld.com/> Originally published 2015-08-10. Last Viewed
2020-06-30.

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
