## Horcruxes

First of all, I'm not going to even start about what the proper plural is.  I
do not care.  Horcruxes works, and I am going to go with that. 

I am also going to use this page for the general discussion of whatever magic it
was that 1) allowed Riddle to survive hitting Harry with the killing curse and 2)
affects Harry's scar regardless of if that magic is actually a horcrux or not.

Cannon makes it very clear that Mrs. Rowling has gone with 6 horcruxes plus
Harry's scar, plus the portion of the soul that floats around for the first
3.something books and is finally fully resurrected at the end of book four.
That is fine, and her prerogative.

When it comes to Harry's scar, I think that cannon is a bit ambiguous, and
leaves open some legitimate speculation.  If you include interviews as part of
cannon, then it starts to lean heavily in favour of it being …
complicated.[^20200731-1]

[^20200731-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling et al. 
    "[Anelli, Melissa, John Noe and Sue Upton. "PotterCast Interviews J.K. Rowling, part one." PotterCast #130, 17
    December 2007.](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2007/1217-pottercast-anelli.html)"
    [Accio-Quote](http://www.accio-quote.org/) Last viewed 2020-07-31. 


#### Harry's Scar

I first read this in [The Thorny Rose 2][TTR213]:
> "But if you know about the Horcruxes, then you will know that they can only be
> destroyed by the most destructive of forces. There is no way Harry could
> survive that," the old wizard pointed out.
>   
> "What’s the matter? Is your hearing going? As I just said; that would be the
> case if Harry was a proper Horcrux, but he isn’t! His body was never prepared
> in the correct manner that Horcrux receptacles are required to be and he
> wasn’t subjected to a Binding Ritual, either. Voldemort’s sliver of soul isn’t
> properly integrated with Harry’s," Ginny yelled in anger.[^20210311-1]
 
However I now know that this theory is more or less exactly what Mrs. Rowling
intended:[^20200731-2] a horcrux has to be intentional, the bit of soul in Harry's scar is
not, therefor he is not a true horcrux.  Because he is not a true horcrux, it
cannot take him over the way a real one would.  The pain is the bit of soul
trying to rejoin the rest of Riddle; and the few times we see it actually
influencing Harry it is because he is, independently, emotionally vulnerable to
it due to feeling things similar to what Riddle would have been feeling. 

Interestingly she insists that despite the fact that he is not a true horcrux,
he would have had to be destroyed the same way.  I, like Ginny in the fanfiction
above, disagree on that.  It does not make sense. 

[TTR213] <http://www.siye.co.uk/viewstory.php?sid=129781&textsize=1&chapter=13>

[^20210311-1]: Brennus. _[The Thorny Rose	2](https://www.siye.co.uk/viewstory.php?sid=129781)_
    [Chapter 13](https://www.siye.co.uk/viewstory.php?sid=129781&textsize=1&chapter=13)
    Published: 2013-12-29. Updated: 2014-02-23. Last Viewed: 2021-03-11.

[^20200731-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling et al. 
    "[Anelli, Melissa, John Noe and Sue Upton. "PotterCast Interviews J.K. Rowling, 
	part one." PotterCast #130, 17 December 2007.](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2007/1217-pottercast-anelli.html)" 
	[Accio-Quote](http://www.accio-quote.org/) Last viewed 2020-07-31. 

#### Mostly Unsupported Nonsense

Even though the other 6 have no real legitimate speculation given what is in
cannon, it would be _fun_ if we did. I will not promise that I will not ever do
so in anything I attempt to write. I really hadn't considered just how much fun
you could have with this until I read offsides' [Long Live The
Queen](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11500936).  From Chapter 32:

> “I've reviewed the diary," said Croaker, jumping straight in, "along with
> interviewing both the victim Miss Weasley, as well as Mister Potter. Based on
> what I learned, I'm confident that it was not a Horcrux."
> 
> The Chief Wizard let out a small sigh of relief, though he knew it didn't mean
> that Voldemort hadn't actually made one later. "Do you know what it was?" he
> asked.
> 
> "Yes and no," replied Croaker. "I'm pretty sure I know what it did and how it
> worked from the big picture, but not how it was made or many of the details.
> In fact, I've never seen or found anything in my research quite like it. As
> you recall, a Horcrux holds a piece of the soul, which could theoretically be
> used to take over another body. This," he held up the diary, "was almost the
> exact opposite.
> 
> "After checking it for various residual traces, I found no indication that
> there was ever a soul directly attached to it, though it was used as a
> temporary repository for one. Based on the memories of Miss Ginny Weasley, it
> became clear that while the diary contained some sort of consciousness that
> interacted with her “the one thing it lacked was a soul, which it was slowly
> leeching as she wrote more and more in the diary. I also reviewed the memory
> of Harry Potter from his encounter with the construct of Tom Marvolo Riddle
> when he ultimately destroyed the diary, and from that came to a rather
> astonishing conclusion.”
> 
> “Somehow, a young Tom Riddle found a way to place a complete copy of his
> consciousness inside the diary, along with a mechanism to trap and ultimately
> absorb the soul of whoever wrote in it. Perhaps he was trying to make a
> Horcrux and failed, but we'll never know. As it absorbed Miss Weasley's soul,
> it gained control over the her Magic, as well as partial control over her
> body. But once the soul was mostly absorbed it was able to create a new body
> for that soul using Magic, and ultimately would have left Miss Weasley's body
> a decayed husk, similar to a victim of the Dementor's Kiss, once the
> absorption was complete. However, the diary itself was required as a focus of
> this process, and since it was destroyed before the process completed the soul
> was able to return to its natural body once control was lost. At least that's
> what I think happened; as I said, I've never seen anything quite like it
> before.”[^20200625-1]

Imagine the staggering implications of that.  It is the one criticism I have of
that story, that the author _did not_ really explore the can of worms that
section opens up. Basically, what if Riddle really had done experiments,
_plural_ such that neither he nor Dumbledore could know which had prevented him
from truly dying?  The idea is not without cannon support, Riddle implies as
much in the graveyard scene.

> I, who have gone further than anybody along the path that leads to
> immortality. You know my goal to conquer death. And now, I was tested, and it
> appeared that one or more of my experiments had worked . . . for I had not
> been killed, though the curse should have done it.[^20200625-2]

Six essentially identical horcruxes really doesn't constitute a situation where
you would say "one or more of my experiments had worked."  I mean, the idea that
so many authors have that you have to consume a horcrux to resurrect Riddle is
silly and rather insulting. It is hardly an immortality device if it only
preserves you from a single death that is bound to happen at some point
eventually. But if a horcrux can be properly understood as an anchor that need
not be consumed, then while the idea of a 7 part soul might be interesting and
all, the idea of having several totally different types of anchors is really
just *fascinating.*  It would be so easy to do too, let Riddle be enamoured with
the idea of a seven part soul, that does not mean it is possible, let there be
some arithmetical limit he hits before that, so that it is something he tried
for, but ultimately could not do. 


[^20200625-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_ (Kindle Locations 9729-9731). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200625-1]: offsides.  
    _[Long Live The Queen](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11500936)_ <https://fanfiction.net> Last Viewed 2020-06-25.

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
