These pages serve three purposes:

1. I enjoyed the Harry Potter series.  I really did.  It is *precisely* because
   [Mrs. Rowling][jkr1]'s Harry is so easy easy to connect with, and the series
   is in fact incredibly readable that the plot holes and the flaws in many of
   the characters get on my nerves so much.  This space gives me a forum to rant
   about the things I would have done differently. 
2. There are things I wish she had written more about, things she had explained
   better.  She did some of that on the [Wizarding World][wws1] site, but not
   enough, and some of it is not fully consistent with the books.  This is a
   space to dive into some of those ideas.  I can speculate about them, and fill
   in some of the plot holes.  The [HP Lexicon][hpl1] and the [Harry Potter
   fandom wiki][hpwiki1] are both excellent resources.  The problem with the
   former does not always explain *where* it gets its information as well as I
   would like.  The problem with the latter is that it includes the movies and
   video games as primary sources far more often that I will tolerate. These
   pages are essentially *my* version of *her* universe, since she left it
   incomplete.
3. I am, at an incredibly slow pace, dabbling with some fanfiction stories.  I
   am reasonably convinced that these should be legal; that I am not breaking
   any laws in doing so.  I have already discovered that I am by nature far more
   of a world builder than a narrator.  This provides a single unified place for
   the stuff that will be common to everything I write in this line; I am
   already overly verbose in the way of story notes.

[wws1]: https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling

[hpwiki1]: https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Main_Page

[hpl1]: https://www.hp-lexicon.org/

[jkr1]: https://www.jkrowling.com/

[[!map pages="title(A*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(B*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(C*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(D*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(E*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(F*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(G*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(H*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(I*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(J*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(K*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(L*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(M*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(N*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(O*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(P*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(Q*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(R*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(S*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(T*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(U*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(V*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(W*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(X*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(Y*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

[[!map pages="title(Z*) and tagged(HP_Notes) and fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/* ! fiction/Harry_Potter/Notes/*/*/*"]]

