## James Potter

James Potter is one of the more controversial figures in the Harry Potter series.  There is so little information about him, that both fanfiction authors and just opinion pieces and commentors are working with an almost blank slate. 

### From the books

> “Your father would have been proud,” she said. “He was an excellent Quidditch player himself.”[^20210128-4]

> "Quirrell said he hates me because he hated my father. Is that true?” 
> “Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mr. Malfoy. And then, your father did something Snape could never forgive.” 
> “What?” 
> “He saved his life.”[^20210128-5]

> “He too was exceedingly arrogant. A small amount of talent on the Quidditch field made him think he was a cut above the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his friends and admirers ..."[^20210128-6]

> “Your father didn’t set much store by rules either,” Snape went on, pressing his advantage, his thin face full of malice. “Rules were for lesser mortals, not Quidditch Cup-winners. His head was so swollen —”[^20210128-7] 

> your saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that would have resulted in my death if your father hadn’t got cold feet at the last moment. There was nothing brave about what he did. He was saving his own skin as much as mine.[^20210128-8]

> “Black and Potter. Ringleaders of their little gang. Both very bright, of course exceptionally bright, in fact but I don’t think we’ve ever had such a pair of troublemakers”[^20210128-19]

> Your father and Sirius here were the cleverest students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus transformation can go horribly wrong one reason the Ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting to do it.[^20210128-3] 

> but your father, who’d heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back,[^20210128-20]

> “I have no hesitation in saying that James would have been highly disappointed if his son had never found any of the secret passages out of the castle.”[^20210128-21]

> “No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in detention with James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge.” 
> “I think Dumbledore might have hoped that I would be able to exercise some control over my best friends,” said Lupin.[^20210128-9]

> “You’re less like your father than I thought,” he said finally, a definite coolness in his voice. “The risk would’ve been what made it fun for James.”[^20210128-10]

> Harry wondered why James didn’t tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, but James seemed to be enjoying the attention. Harry noticed his father had a habit of rumpling up his hair as though to make sure it did not get too tidy, and also that he kept looking over at the girls by the water’s edge.[^20210128-11]

> “I’m bored,” said Sirius. “Wish it was full moon.” 
> “You might,” said Lupin darkly from behind his book. “We’ve still got Transfiguration, if you’re bored you could test me ... Here.” He held out his book. 
> Sirius snorted. “I don’t need to look at that rubbish, I know it all.” 
> “This’ll liven you up, Padfoot,” said James quietly. “Look who it is ...”[^20210128-12] 

> “All right, Evans?” said James, and the tone of his voice was suddenly pleasant, deeper, more mature. 
> “Leave him alone,” Lily repeated. She was looking at James with every sign of great dislike. “What’s he done to you?” 
> “Well,” said James, appearing to deliberate the point, “it’s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I mean ...” 
> Many of the surrounding watchers laughed, Sirius and Wormtail included, but Lupin, still apparently intent on his book, didn’t, and neither did Lily. 
> “You think you’re funny,” she said coldly. “But you’re just an arrogant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him alone.”[^20210128-13]

> Snape had directed his wand straight at James; there was a flash of light and a gash appeared on the side of James’s face, spattering his robes with blood. James whirled about; a second flash of light later, Snape was hanging upside down in the air,[^20210128-14]

> Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an instant as though she was going to smile, said, “Let him down!”[^20210128-15]

> “Look, Harry,” said Sirius placatingly, “James and Snape hated each other from the moment they set eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, you can understand that, can’t you? I think James was everything Snape wanted to be he was popular, he was good at Quidditch, good at pretty much everything. And Snape was just this little oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts and James — whatever else he may have appeared to you, Harry always hated the Dark Arts.” 
> “Yeah,” said Harry, “but he just attacked Snape for no good reason, just because — well, just because you said you were bored,” he finished with a slightly apologetic note in his voice. 
> “I’m not proud of it,” said Sirius quickly. 
> Lupin looked sideways at Sirius and then said, “Look, Harry, what you’ve got to understand is that your father and Sirius were the best in the school at whatever they did — everyone thought they were the height of cool — if they sometimes got a bit carried away —” 
> “If we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you mean,” said Sirius.[^20210128-16]

> Lupin burst out laughing. “Sometimes you remind me a lot of James. He called it my ‘furry little problem’ in company. Many people were under the impression that I owned a badly behaved rabbit.”[^20210128-18]

> Harry remembered that his father had been pure-blood,[^20210128-17]

> Harry recognized his father; his untidy black hair stuck up at the back like Harry’s, and he too wore glasses.[^20210128-22]

> James Potter
> Born 27 March 1960
> Died 31 October 1981[^20210128-23]

> “Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” James asked the boy lounging on the seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry realized that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile. 
> “My whole family have been in Slytherin,” he said. 
> “Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all right!” 
> Sirius grinned. “Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you heading, if you’ve got the choice?” 
> James lifted an invisible sword. “‘Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my dad.”[^20210128-24]

[^20210128-24]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ p. 277 Location 8526 of 9604. 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-23]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ p. 135 Location 4200 of 9604. 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-22]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_ p. 73 Location 2312 of 9604. 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-21]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ pp. 424-425 Location 5332 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-20]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 357 Location 4454 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-18]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ p. 280 Location 4277 of 8473. 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-17]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_ p. 202 Location 3069 of 8473. 
    Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-16]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9822-9830 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-15]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9500-9501 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-14]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9497-9499 of13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-13]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9487-9493 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-12]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9461-9464 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-11]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9455-9457 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-10]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 4485-4486 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 363, location 4403 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ p. 152 location 1888 of 3996. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_ p. 300 Location 3699 of 3996. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-19]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 204 Location 2551 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 284 Location 3556 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 284 Location 3556 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-8]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ p. 284 Location 3556 of 5714. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210128-9]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 2536-2538 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

