## Legilimency

Legilimency might not be quite reading your thoughts like a book, but it
certainly seems to come close.  Though I have not seen it myself, this
is apparently especially true if you include the _Fantastic Beasts and
Where To Find Them_ movie.[^20200630-8] According to what I have read,
Mrs. Rowling's comments on that movie indicate that Legilimency is not
just a skill you can learn, but one that you can essentially be born with.

Before reading that, my thoughts were certainly trending in the direction
of the dark arts. The fact that Dumbledore makes fairly free use of
Legilimency[^20200630-9] is really more proof of the morally ambiguous
nature of Dumbledore; I am the last person to whitelist a practice
just because he does it.  Certainly the idea of intruding on a person's
thoughts, memories and emotions is invasive.  That by itself isn't enough
to render it evil though.  It is more the way Snape uses it I suppose, the
way he batters Harry with it, leaving Harry with migraines and nightmares
that starts me down that path. I am not sure where, but I have also read
at least one author speculate that a skilled Legilimens might not just be
able to read and interpret, but might be able to implant and influence
thoughts, emotions, maybe even manipulate memories. That, to me, would
unquestionably be a violation of the person's free will, and thus evil.

Still, I refuse to believe that someone is born evil.  Now the fallen
nature of humanity is a very very real thing.  We tend towards sin.
But we also have free will, and sufficient free will to turn towards God
and respond to grace.  Moreover the Devil can only corrupt, not create.
The idea that you can be born with a _skill_ that is inherently immoral
to use is repugnant.  One that can only be used in specific context, in
narrow ways, fine.  Theology has to deal with concupiscense and chastity
already afterall.  But if Queenie Goldstein is born instinctively
practicing Legilimency, there must be a moral context in which it is
acceptable.  A time, a place, and a method by which she can use her gift,
even if she must (or at least should) learn to reign it in some or even
most of the time.

Still, whether or not Legilimency is not itself inherently evil,
and given that [[Occlumency]] is inherently flawed, the methods of
defense against it that are presented to us by Mrs. Rowling are woefully
insufficient. There has to be something that you can do to defend your
privacy, and potentially even the integrity of your mind, without risking
damage to yourself.

[^20200630-8]: Kelly West. "[A Key Difference
Between Snape And Queenie's Abilities, According to JK
Rowling](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/1604520/a-key-difference-between-snape-and-queenies-abilities-according-to-jk-rowling)"
[Cinema Blend](https://www.cinemablend.com/) 2016-12-26.  Last Viewed
2020-06-30.

[^20200630-9]: <https://harrypotter.fandom.com/>.
"[Legilimency](https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Legilimency)" Last
Viewed 2020-06-30.  Note the article's text only mentions one clear cut
example, but I'm taking everything in the table as a given example of use.

Muggledad in _Partners_[^20191119-7] offers a viable alternative.
He calls it a definitionof Occlumency, but as I [[discuss|Occlumency]],
the author's clear intent does not allow his definition.  So instead,
take this as a suggestion of an alternative, but as yet unnamed, approach.

> What you will do for Occlumency is to cast a wordless, wandless, and most
  importantly, incantationless shield about your mind and thoughts. It
  is very difficult to do when one's mind is cluttered with the humdrum
  of day to day life, so the calmness and unity of thought that is a
  byproduct of the Magicus Intimus is a vital first step.[^20191119-8]

The interesting thig about this proposal is that it does not even
contracdict what we get from Mrs. Rowling. _At first_ you will find it
next to impossible to cast a shield while thinking about other things.
_At first_ it is thus necessary to clear your mind.  But with practice,
you can hold this shield while going about your normal life just like
you walk and chew gum.  You might, with practice, even be able to walk,
chew gum, and catch a baseball, but you will have trouble chewing gum
and taking a drink.  So too, you can, with practice, hold that shield
and do other things, but when Professor Snape is focusing on legilimency,
which is closely related, he is vulnerable to Harry reflecting the attack
and breaking into his own mind.[^20191119-9] He feels the need to remove
certain memories then because he, effectively, cannot chew gum and drink
at the same time.  He can do legilimency, or he can do Occlumency, or he can do
this unnamed skill (or perhaps even Occlumency and thus unnamed skill), and
he can even switch between them relatively fast, but not fast enough to
feel confident about keeping all his most sensitive memories in his head.
This is an explanation of 1) his behavior, 2) Occlumency and Legilimency, 
and 3) something normal people could do without damaging themselves that 
makes sense, without contradicting the cannon definition of Occlumency. 

[^20191119-7]: muggledad. _Partners_.
<https://www.ultimatehpfanfiction.com/daphne/pts> Last Viewed 2019-11-19.

[^20191119-8]: muggledad. _Partners_.  Chapter 8.
<https://www.ultimatehpfanfiction.com/daphne/pts/a/8/Partners/muggledad/16>
Last Viewed 2019-11-19.

[^20191119-9]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Order of
the Phoenix_.  Better citation needed here.

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
