## Magic

[[!toc levels=2 startlevel=3]]

### World-building

Where does magic come from?  How does it work?  What are the mechanics of it for
lack of a better word? 

We seem to have:

* Spells - curses, hexes, jinks, charms, transfiguration
   * > The wand is a European invention, and while African witches and wizards
     > have adopted it as a useful tool in the last century, many spells are
     > cast simply by pointing the finger or through hand gestures.[^20210304-5]
   * Mrs. Rowling published a Book of Spells only available on
     Playstation.[^20210406-44]  There seems to be a [transcript
     available][BoST]
* Potions
* Runes
* Divination - tea cups, horoscopes, star charts, crystal balls, so on.
* Arithmancy - Per Google, this should be part of Divination, but is apparently
   something different. 
* Rituals - Riddle's resurrection seems to be a combination of elements of the
   above.  It is also interesting that it is normal spoken English where nothing
   else we see of magic is.

[BoST]: https://magicscrapbook.tumblr.com/post/162085200042/book-of-spells-transcript

[^20210406-44]: [magicscrapbook](https://magicscrapbook.tumblr.com/)
    "[‘Book of Spells’ transcript](https://magicscrapbook.tumblr.com/post/162085200042/book-of-spells-transcript)"
    Last Viewed 2021-05-12.

### Animagus

The common fanfiction idea is that you do not choose your animagus animal. I
am not sure what basis if any this has in the Cannon books, much less the
somewhat less canonical stuff that Mrs. Rowling has included in the various
websites and interviews dedicated to the series.  However, we do have one quote
that *suggests* otherwise:

> At a recent International Symposium of Animagi, the Uagadou School Team
> attracted a lot of press when their exhibition of synchronised transforming
> caused a near riot. Many older and more experienced witches and wizards felt
> threatened by fourteen-year-olds who could turn at will into elephants and
> cheetahs, and a formal complaint was lodged with the International
> Confederation of Wizards by Adrian Tutley (Animagus: gerbil).[^20210304-6]

If you do not chose your animal, a school team composed of people who are *all*
dual animagi elephants and cheetahs is not really plausible.  My guess is that
there are different ways to achieve the animagus transformation. If we posit
that, then it is possible that the particular method that European wizardry has
adopted and/or discovered a method that *does* include an involuntary choice of
animal, and *does* limit you to a single animal.  Being typically arrogant, the
British are unwilling to consider that someone else might have a better
approach.  When it is rubbed in their faces, Mr. Tutley of course reacts with a
law suit - if you are better than me, you must have done something
reprehensible.

Some writers have suggested that at least some versions of the animagus
transformation result in changes to the human, just as there are identifying
marks on the animal.[^20210514-9]  This would explain Madam Hooch
eyes.[^20210618-5]

[^20210618=6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _[Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3.Harry_Potter_and_the_Sorcerer_s_Stone)_
    p. 146. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210514-9]: works that do this include:
    * CmptrWz. 
      _[For Want of an Outfit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/28507302)_
      [Archive of Our Own](https://archiveofourown.org/)
      Published:2021-01-02 Updated:2021-05-14 Last Viewed: 2021-05-14

### Healing

Healing seems to use charms for diagnosis, and a combination of spells (charms
and transfiguration?) and potions for the actual healing.  Per Mrs. Rowling:

> I decided that, broadly speaking, wizards would have the power to correct or
> override ‘mundane’ nature, but not ‘magical’ nature. Therefore, a wizard could
> catch anything a Muggle might catch, but he could cure all of it; he would
> also comfortably survive a scorpion sting that might kill a Muggle, whereas he
> might die if bitten by a Venomous Tentacula. Similarly, bones broken in
> non-magical accidents such as falls or fist fights can be mended by magic, but
> the consequences of curses or backfiring magic could be serious, permanent or
> life-threatening.[^20210302-1]

Against this we have the fact that Percy wears horn-rimmed glasses[^20210302-2].
The question then becomes did the Weasleys not fix his eyesight because

* it is too costly to do so 
  * I know of at least one where it is "extremely painful and very expensive, not to
    mention very hard, to make"[^20210302-3] where "very expensive" means "a
    couple of thousand Galleons."[^20210302-4]
* it is morally distasteful to do so (requires dark magic?)
* it is not possible to do so (contradicts the above quote from the website)
  * from one fanfiction: 
    > your homeostasis is having poor eyesight. Most healing magic works to get
      things back to normal. If you cut your eye and then healed it, your
      eyesight would remain the same. You'd have to purposefully leave a scar
      to leave an impact, which would only happen with a cursed or highly
      magical injury. Imagine! Cursing your own eyes to heal them, muggles are
      deranged\![^20210302-5]
* it does not occur to British pureblood society to do so 
  * You could take the above quote, and assume that the shop owner is actually
    only partially right.  Perhaps *most* healing magic returns you to "normal"
    and thus some forms of poor eye sight could not be affected by that magic.
    That would not preclude *uncommon* magic that changes your genetic
    predisposition to better eyesight, nor would it preclude magic fixing the
    need for glasses caused by eye strain, head or eye trauma, or other things
    that a muggleborn might show up in his shop with. 

### Dark magic

Some magic is classified as being "dark."  Things so classified are harmful to
the caster, the victim, or both in some way.  If there is a victim, the results
are harder or even impossible to reverse.  In some places there is an
implication that it is also harder to even block. I need citations for this. 

#### Unforgivables

I have read fanfiction that tries to present the three unforgivable curses as
merely misunderstood bits of magic.  I dislike that idea.  Oh, there is some
logic to it, particularly for the Imperius curse, but overall it does not fit
with what we read in the books.  I need to look up the citations for this, but
there are a couple of key points.  

Fake professor Moody tells the class that the killing curse requires true hate
as well as power.  He asserts that the class could cast it, but that he would be
unlikely to get so much as a nose bleed.[^20200731-4]  You do not hate an animal
you are trying to kill painlessly.  There is no obvious derivation from a spell
used for animal slaughter to one that _requires_ this kind of hatred to work.
The addition of emotion may make a spell stronger, perhaps harder to block, but
the spell as described does not overpower shields, it goes right through them.  

Bellatrix tells Harry much the same thing when he fails to cast the cruciatus
curse on her.[^20200731-5]  There is no medical application for hating someone.
Sure you might envision medical applications for electrical stimulation (which
might have similar effects as the curse), or otherwise shocking someone.
However, your benign intent is the total inverse of that required for this
curse. 

In both cases these two curses are unforgivable in part because they are
difficult to shield against (I am assuming conjuration of stone is, for most
people, very hard, very draining, or very slow) and in part because of the mind
set required to cast them. 

We know less about the third, the imperious, and if the intent required is
merely to override someone's will, then it is easier to see situations where you
might justify it.  Ultimately I think what makes it so dangerous to society and
thus punished so heavily is that they have trouble detecting it.  If you cannot
know when someone has done something of their own will, you have utterly
undermined your entire ability to hold trials, establish order, and effectively
have civilisation.  

I have read in one fanfiction that, while it has some very troubling elements,
also has some really compelling world building elements, a view of unforgivables
and perhaps dark magic in general that is not wholly incompatible with the
above, but extends beyond it.  I am not sure it how cannon compatible it is, but
it certainly allows for a lot of flexibility.

> "Those spells require the right mind set to work as intended," Nicholas said.
> "I dare say any magic user of moderate ability could cast one, but it would
> not be nearly as effective and could be blocked and it would be magically
> draining without the mind set. With the mind set, the spells are unblock-able
> and do not drain the caster. The problem is that mind set would mean you are
> no better than they are. To do the spells as intended, you cannot have any
> regard for human life at all. You must be evil to the core. The more you use
> those spells, the more proficient you become at them, the less human you
> remain and the more you become that which you're fighting. But Harry is right.
> Using those spells gives them an advantage in a fight one which can only be
> countered by a degree of skill most never attain.[^20200731-6]

This explains why the Death Eaters were so hard to fight, even though Aurors are
supposedly some of the most skilled at magic that you could find, requiring five
NEWTS with Exceeds Expectations including some of the harder
disciplines.[^20200731-7]  I *strongly* suspect that not all inner circle Death
Eaters have the same Exceeds Expectations or better in Charms, Transfiguration
and Defence.  If what they have instead is a type of magic that levels the
playing field, or even tilts it the other way, a desperate Ministry losing the
war might well decide to authorise it, and leave it up to each individual Auror
to judge the cost.  

#### Vampires

How much blood do you have to lose before you become a vampire? 

In _Dracula_, any bite causes a lose of willpower, but only actually dying will
cause you to become one.[^20210513-6]  Is that true here?  If so, is anything
left of the original person when you change? 

It seems to be implied that vampires may not be beings of pure
evil.[^20210513-7] Is this a true or false impression? 



[^20210513-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_
    Better citation needed. 

[^20210513-6]: citation needed. 

#### Werewolves

Can a non-magical person get infected? If so, can they then use magic? 
I have seen speculation that a non-magical person infected would die on the
first change,[^20210513-4] and speculation that *most* werewolves are
non-magical.[^20210513-5]

Overall, Werewolf-ism is a virus, it *might* cross the placental wall, but it
would not be inherited from father to child.  It does seem clear that this virus
shortens the person's lifespan noticeably. 

Is the werewolf more or less susceptible to
[[Legilimency|The_Mind_Arts/Legilimency]]?  Does the virus create a "wolf"
personality in his/her mind?  Would fracturing your mind that way make it harder
to attack, or harder to defend? 

Does the werewolf experience physical changes that persist the rest of the time?
Enhanced sense of smell, or strength? 

Exactly how "full" does the moon need to be for a werewolf to turn? Is it
precisely one night a month, or several? 

Can the werewolf change at will, or only involuntarily? 

The moon is up during the day sometimes.  How would a solar eclipse affect a
werewolf? 


[20210513-4]: citation needed

[20210513-5]: citation needed

### Wands

* There is a fascinating article on [wand wood][20210126-1] and the
  personality traits and skills that go along with each.[^20200723-1]
* Mr. Ollivander's notes in the above article are incomplete: 
  * Umbridge has a birch wand,[^20210511-4] and is also
    on her original list of Celtic woods when she talks about
    wands.[^20210511-7]
  * [James Potter|adults/James_Potter]] had a mahogany wand.[^20210511-5]
  * ivy is on the list of Celtic woods that Mrs. Rowling posted when she first
    talked about wand woods.[^20210511-6] 
  * Fleur had a rosewood wand.[^20210511-8] 
  * various other woods appear to be introduced by the Fantastic Beasts prequel
    stuff.  [WizardingWorld][ww] seems to mention some of them, and has been
    mined for information in [this article][20210511-9].
* The one on [size and flexibility][20210126-2] is more abbreviated, but points 
  out that you must not be too literal.[^20200723-2]
* Mr. Ollivander has researched wand cores and will use only three of
  them.[^20200723-3]  
* Others are possible, but [the article on cores][20210126-3]
  was, like the other two, written as if by him and so focuses on those three.
  * Most of Mrs. Rowling's own writing almost acts as if the current Mr.
    Ollivander is the only Mr. Ollivander despite the fact that the sign
    outside the shop door states that the family has been making wands since 382
    B.C.[^20210512-1]  I am willing to accept that wizards live longer than
    non-magical persons, but not by that much.  For there to only be one Mr.
    Ollivander would require that he be approximately 2373 years old! If such
    were true, then Nicholas Flamel's mere 665 years[^20210512-2] would not
    really be noteworthy at all, and the philosopher's stone entirely
    unnecessary.  
  * Indeed, [the article on cores][20210126-3] directly states that the current
    Mr. Garrick Ollivander inherited the business from his father.[^20210512-4]
  * Given there have been an entire succession of Ollivanders making and selling
    wands, which "Garrick Ollivander"[^20210512-3] actually did the research and
    published the notes we are relying on? 
  * Earlier Ollivanders were less fastidious about their wand cores.[^20210512-5]
    Does the shop still hold wands made by these earlier Ollivanders?  If so, is
    the current Mr. Ollivander willing to sell these wands, or only ones that
    meet his (higher) bar for quality? 

Given the above articles I talk some about [[Harry]]'s wand on the page
dedicated to him.  Riddle's wand, I think it is fairly inevitable that he would
have a yew wand, but I am somewhat surprised that he would have a phoenix
feather core.  While it does say it is the most capable, in a sense, it says
dragon heartstring is the most powerful.  Would Riddle value range and or power
more?  He would certainly dislike that the phoenix feather wand might sometimes
act of its own accord.[^20200806-5]  Naturally eleven year old Riddle knows
nothing of wand lore and so is not deciding this, yet still, the wand must sense
something of the wizard it is bonding with…

[ww]: https://www.wizardingworld.com
    "WizardingWorld"

[20210126-1]: https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-woods 
    "WizardingWorld article on Wand Woods"

[20210126-2]: https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-lengths-and-flexibility
    "WizardingWorld article on Wand length"

[20210126-3]: https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-cores
    "WizardingWorld article on Wand Cores"

[20210511-9]: https://harrypotter.fandom.com/wiki/Wand_wood
    "Harry Potter wiki article on Wand Wood"

[^20210512-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 82. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210512-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 220. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210512-3]: Garrick Ollivander is the purported author of all 3 Pottermore
    articles I have referenced here. 

[^20210511-8]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_
    Kindle Locations 4642-4643. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210511-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wands](https://web.archive.org/web/20060316221102/http://www.jkrowling.com/textonly/en/extrastuff_view.cfm?id=18)"
    Snapshot from 2006-03-16. Snapshot Viewed 2021-05-11.

[^20210511-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wands](https://web.archive.org/web/20060316221102/http://www.jkrowling.com/textonly/en/extrastuff_view.cfm?id=18)"
    Snapshot from 2006-03-16. Snapshot Viewed 2021-05-11.

[^20210511-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 82. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210511-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power,
    Politics, and Pesky Poltergeists_ Pottermore Publishing American Kindle
    Edition, © 2016. Page 7. 

[^20200723-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Woods](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-woods)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20200723-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Lengths & Flexibility](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-lengths-and-flexibility)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20210512-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Cores](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-cores)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2021-05-12.

[^20210512-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Cores](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-cores)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2021-05-12.

[^20200723-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Cores](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-cores)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-23.

[^20200806-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Wand Cores](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/wand-cores)"
    Originally published 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-08-06.


### The Wards around Privet Drive and The Trace

#### Wards in General

First of all, I am not going to spend much time worrying about whether or not
"wards" are part of the cannon universe or not.  The books may never use the
word, but the concept certainly exists.  The books provide no consistent name
for area affect protection magics, particularly not long lasting ones.  I am
going to join most of fanfiction and call these magics wards.  The books use all
sorts of names, and in some places descriptions of effects without naming the
magic behind it at all (you cannot apparate in Hogwarts).  I need a word, and
"ward" works well.

#### Wards at Number Four

In the cannon Harry Potter universe, the wards were set to fail when Harry turns
17, becoming an adult.  This has lead some fanfiction authors to speculate that
any event that causes Harry to be emancipated would also cause the wards to
fail.  Per the books, the wards were stood up when Petunia took Harry into her
home.[^20180709-2]  I have to deal with this in this in any story.  How exactly do the
wards work, and what protection do they provide? I initially considered that the
wards might not have activated, as this would both be a bit of ironic justice
and make any story easier.  In *[[Family Inseparable|Family_Inseparable]]* I
adopted a story in which Harry gets married at a young age.  What affect, if
any, would such a marriage have on the wards?  In the non-magical world,
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/) suggests that England does not have a
concept of emancipation of minors.[^20210329-12] If that is true, his marriage
should have no effect on the wards (or on the Trace), particularly since, per
the same article, this seems to be in line with older systems of law.  

Another possibility is that turning 17 is a magical event - literally. Because
Harry never takes arithmancy in the books, we do not see much about magic
numbers, but we know they exist.  Perhaps this particular prime number impacts
the operation of the wards (and the Trace must be some form of detection ward I
think) in some way.  If that is true, then it does not matter if emancipation
exists in the magical world or not, because it would be a legal event and not a
magical one, and so would not affect either the Trace or the wards.

We are told that they stand "so long as he can call Privet Drive
'home'"[^20210521-1]  In _the Philosopher's Stone_ we read "The castle felt
more like home than Privet Drive ever had."[^20210521-2]  What does this mean
for the strength, or even the existence, of these wards?  Sure, Hogwarts is a
boarding school, but Harry has at this point only lived there for about two
months.  If it already feels more like home than the only other place he ever
remembers living, that is a remarkable lack of attachment. 

[^20210521-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 170. © 1998 Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210521-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. paraphrased, but a citations is still needed.

#### The Trace

A related question is The Trace, which also terminates at 17.  How does this
operate?  As I said, I think it has to be a detection ward of some sort.  I have
read number of different ideas about it.

Things we know:
* "small explosions from Fred and George’s bedroom were considered perfectly
  normal."[^20210618-1] They are certainly doing under-aged magic of some sort
  (probably potions based). 
* Dobby's magic can trigger it.[^20210618-2]
* It is suggested that the is sneaking Harry out under the eyes of the
  Ministry,[^20210618-3] and yet Tonks' magic does not set it off in book five.[^20210618-4]

Things we speculate: 
* One author suggested that it gets added to wands that ride the Hogwarts
  Express.[^20210329-13] The problem with this is that I believe it would effect
  the wands of 7th year students, most if not all of whom are already 17. 
* One author suggested it gets added (to either wands or students) as they ride
  the boats on their way to Hogwarts for the first time.[^20210329-14]
* One author suggested there is a network of rune-engraved ward-stones across
  the country.[^20210329-15] 
* One author suggests that monitoring devices are placed near the address of
  witches and wizards known to be under-aged.[^20210329-16] The Trace then only
  works near such devices. 
* A number of authors suggest that there is "equipment" at the Ministry that is used to
  detect magic.  Some think that equipment can distinguish between under-aged and
  over aged magic.[^20210329-17] This would effectively be an example of 17 as a
  magical number that effects the way magic operates at a fundamental level.
  Some think that the equipment is "tuned" to detect certain magic, and could be
  returned to detect different magic.[^20210329-18] I am not sure that really differs. 
* One interesting idea suggested that the trace, regardless of which of the
  above, only worked for wands in which the person requesting the report had an
  owning interest in, and thus the Ministry subsidised wand sales to
  minors.[^20210329-19] By paying for part of a child's wand, the Ministry has
  partial ownership and could thus get magical reports on the wand's use. 

In all of my stories, I need to figure out which approach I am going to take,
either one of the above, or some other approach.  I dislike contradicting the
text when it comes to world mechanics more than I have to.  However, I do have
to some - wizarding households function on magic, so the Decree for the
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery and the Trace either allows for
supervised household charm or does not function at all in wizarding households,
probably the latter.  The whole "do not use magic outside of school" thing is
more for muggle born witches and wizards rather than any real restriction. See
[[Culture]] for more on this. 

[^20210618-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _[Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15881.Harry_Potter_and_the_Chamber_of_Secrets)_
    p. 42. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210618-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _[Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15881.Harry_Potter_and_the_Chamber_of_Secrets)_
    p. 20. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210618-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _[Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2.Harry_Potter_and_the_Order_of_the_Phoenix)_
    Kindle Locations 821-823. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210618-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _[Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2.Harry_Potter_and_the_Order_of_the_Phoenix)_
    Kindle Locations 760,851. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210329-13]: Need Citation

[^20210329-14]: Need Citation

[^20210329-15]: Need Citation

[^20210329-16]: Need Citation

[^20210329-17]: Need Citation

[^20210329-18]: Need Citation

[^20210329-19]: Need Citation

[^20210329-12]: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/) 
    "[Emancipation of minors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emancipation_of_minors)
    Last Updated: 2021-03-27. Last Viewed: 2021-03-29.

[^20180709-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_.  Chapter 37. Location 12236. 

[^20200731-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_ 

[^20200731-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_

[^20200731-6]: Radaslab.  
    _[Not Normal](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149)_
    [Fanfiction.net](https://www.fanfiction.net/) 
    [Chapter 59](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149/59/Not-Normal)  Published 2011-07-04,
    Updated 2013-08-10, Last Viewed 2020-07-31.

[^20200731-7]: Citation needed. 

[^20210302-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "[Illness and Disability](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/illness-and-disability)"
    Originally published on Pottermore on 2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2021-03-02. 

[^20210304-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    "[Uagadou](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/uagadou)"
    Originally published on Pottermore on 2016-01-30. Last Viewed 2021-03-04.

[^20210304-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    "[Uagadou](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/uagadou)"
    Originally published on Pottermore on 2016-01-30. Last Viewed 2021-03-04.

[^20210302-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets_
    Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. Approx Location 4405 of 4470.

[^20210302-3]: kb0. _[Fate's Mistake](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4084005)_
    [Chapter 1](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4084005/1/Fate-s-Mistake)

[^20210302-4]: kb0. _[Fate's Mistake](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4084005)_
    [Chapter 1](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4084005/1/Fate-s-Mistake)
    Published 2008-02-19. Updated 2008-03-02. Last viewed 2021-03-02.

[^20210302-5]: Sunlesswarmth. _[BrokenProphecy](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13712386)_
    [Chapter 3](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13712386/3/Broken-Prophecy)
    Published 2020-10-04. Updated 2020-12-01. Last Viewed 2021-03-02.

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

