#### Professor Minerva McGonagall

I really want to like Professor McGonagall, but so much that happens at Hogwarts
is troubling that I am conflicted about her. _The Board_[^20190823-1] by
[Clell65619][dmffan] shows a critical view of her that I am, despite myself,
really drawn to.  This view is more or less seconded by _[When Is It a
Contract][WIIAC]_ which focuses on the conflicts between her roles as Deputy and
Head of House.[^20210322-2]

Her timeline is ambiguous.  She joined Hogwarts at a time when there was more
than one teacher in the Transfiguration Department, approximately 2 or 3 years
after her graduation.[^20200720-7]  She informs Umbridge that she will have been
at Hogwarts "Thirty-nine years this December,"[^20200720-8] sometime in the
beginning of fifth year, or 1995. That puts her start date in 1956. 

Perhaps the first problematic moment is the detention in the night she catches
Harry and Hermione out after they deliver Norbert.[^20210429-1] Earlier that
night she had caught Malfoy, and believed him to be telling lies about Harry and
a dragon.  This resulted in a detention and a loss of twenty
points.[^20210429-2] On catching Harry, Hermione and Neville, she asks for an
explanation, and when one is not forthcoming, infers one from the facts
available to her.  It is at this point that I believe that she sees in front of
her James Potter and not Harry Potter. 

She infers that Harry and Hermione have maliciously tricked Malfoy into thinking
they would be out after curfew to get him in trouble.  Per that logic,
Neville overheard the story, and was accidentally tricked as well.  Let us play
this out.

At the time she caught Draco, was this already in her mind? If not, she deducted
thirty points less per student for Draco's (seemingly) identical actions.  At
the time she punished Draco, she supposedly thought him lying to her, out after
hours for no good reason, during these "especially" dangerous times.  When she
found out about the other three, Draco is now found to have been, from his
perspective, telling the truth.  She neither reduces his (Draco's) punishment,
nor gives Harry and Hermione the same punishment as Draco.  Next, she gives
Neville an identical punishment to Harry and Hermione, despite the fact that he
is, per her theory, not involved in the plot on Draco, after all Harry and
Hermione supposedly think it funny that Neville was caught also.  

The punishment is entirely intended to be over the top.  It is *intended* to
cause the rest of the house to shun them.  McGonagall is _not_ seeing Harry,
small for his age (he has to be, see my page specifically on [[Harry]]), shy,
and uncertain.  No; she is seeing James Potter, bold, brash, almost cruel in his
pranks.  She is purposefully going overboard to head off that type of behaviour.
Better that Harry suffer rejection by his peers than mirror his father's early
years in school.  

The part that makes this questionable is twofold.  One, she knows full well that
James Potter grew up spoiled and loved where Harry grew up in a family she
herself had observed and had doubts about.  She should have known by that point
that Harry behaved nothing like James.  Secondly, Neville did not need to be
crushed.  If Harry was cruelly amused that Neville was caught up in the prank,
there is no need to give Harry and Neville identical treatment. 

Then she sends the four of them into the Forbidden Forest, at eleven at night,
to search for the same unicorn that is being hunted by something that is both
dark (evil) and potentially dangerous.  Do not get me wrong, I like Hagrid.  I
would even trust him to an extent, but I qualify that because as we see over and
over again across the series, Hagrid does not have a realistic risk evaluation
for people without his half-giant heritage.  McGonagall should know this, and
should be able and willing to compensate for it.  

The only possible saving explanations for the detention are either that
McGonagall had no choice, that Dumbledore in fact set it up and she was the
messenger, or that she was in some way unaware of his plans.  If the former, I
am disappointed that she continues to work for a man who would put students in
his care in that situation.  If the latter, I'm disappointed that she is that
naive. 

The next is less clear cut.  I have trouble believing that everyone wearing the
"Support Cedric" badges was so sneaky that McGonagall never saw the "Potter
Stinks" version of them.  The badges should have been confiscated, and it really
would have only taken any responsible teacher (that is to day, not Snape) seeing
the change once to know that they all did it and they all needed to go.  Again,
it is possible that Dumbledore tied her hands.  If so, it says something less
than positive about her that she allowed him to do so.

I have mixed feelings about her initial treatment when she is notified that
Harry has a week of detentions with Umbridge.  It seems to me that either as
Deputy Headmistress or as Head of House, that her role is _precisely_ to get
involved in discipline issues.  That is why Harry was sent to her at all in fact.
Still, Harry _does_ need to learn to keep his temper.  I would tend to argue
though that there is a difference between learning to pick your battles (which
Harry needs to do) and learning to "keep your head down"[^20210429-3] which is
what she advises him to do.  Picking your battles and keeping your temper are
life skills that Harry lacks and needs.  Keeping your head down is an act of
fear.  I sympathise with Harry resenting that advice.  Professor McGonagall has
worked with teens for many years now.  She should know that her Gryffindors will
interpret her "keep your head down" as cowardice, and that she needs be more
careful with her wording to successfully reach them. 

As Harry's fifth year progresses, I wonder that the teachers did not resign in
protest.  At some point being complicit is a problem.  Sure you can argue about
wanting to protect your students to the extent possible.  There is some merit to
that argument.  This was not (yet) however the situation with Headmaster Snape.
Could the Ministry really have kept things under control if Sprout, McGonagall
and Flitwick had refused to cooperate more overtly?  Had they resigned, sure
Fudge could have appointed more of his stooges.  He could not have prevented the
fact of their resignation from getting out however.  If they had more backbone,
I have to believe they have the connections to have made their opinions known. 



[^20210429-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 243. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210429-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 240. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210429-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_
    paraphrased from Kindle Location 3669. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[dmffan]: <https://deluded-musings.fanficauthors.net>

[^20210322-2]: Aealket.
    _[When Is It a Contract](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7382549)_ Published 2011-09-14. 

[WIIAC]: <https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7382549>

[^20190823-1]: <https://deluded-musings.fanficauthors.net/The_Board/The_Board/>
Last viewed 2019-08-23.

[^20200720-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. "[Professor
McGonagall](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/professor-mcgonagall)"
[Wizarding World](https://www.wizardingworld.com/) Originally published
2015-08-10.  Last Viewed 2020-07-20.

[^20200720-8]:  Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ 
(Kindle Location 4721). Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[[!meta title="Minerva McGonagall"]]
[[!tag "HP Notes"]]

