[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
## Peverell Brothers

"The Tale of the Three Brothers" as quoted in Chapter 21 of _the Deathly Hallows_ gives us the most truly cannon information on the three brothers.[^20210125-1]  It does not give us any real indication of how old the brothers were when the artefacts were either made or acquired, but if you read carefully, there are some clues about their lives.  

* The first brother is described as dying within a few weeks. He "travelled on for a week or more" before reaching the village in which he died.[^20210125-2]

* The second brother "journeyed to his own home, where he lived alone."[^20210125-3] The wording is technically ambiguous, bit implies that he summoned the shade of "the girl he had once hoped to marry, before her untimely death"[^20210125-4] immediately on arriving home.  It concludes that he was "finally" driven to despair, implying time has passed.  It seems to me unlikely though that a man obsessed with the stone in this way would marry and have children.  Yes, I know that the Gaunts claim to be descendants, I am not however the first to realise that the ring is not precisely proof.[^20210218-1]

* "Death searched for the third brother for many years," ... "he had attained a great age" and had a son.[^20210125-5]  Cannon sources tell us that the Potter family would descend from a granddaughter (of some number of generations) of this brother.  I know it flies in the face of accepted interpretation, but I insist that if the Gaunts are true decedents of the Peverells at all, and not false claimants, then they must also descend from this brother.  I believe that the third brother alone lived to raise a family.  

[^20210125-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.  Chapter 21.

[^20210125-2]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.  Chapter 21. Approx Loc 5215 of 9604. 

[^20210125-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.  Chapter 21. Approx Loc 5215 of 9604. 

[^20210125-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.  Chapter 21. Approx Loc 5215 of 9604. 

[^20210125-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.  Chapter 21. Approx Loc 5215 of 9604. 

[^20210218-1]: kb0. _[Harry Potter and the Unexpected Power](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9444812)_ [Chapter 5](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9444812/5/Harry-Potter-and-the-Unexpected-Power) Updated: 2013-08-03; Published: 2013-07-01; Last Viewed: 2021-02-18.
