[[!meta title="Sirius Black"]]
[[!toc  startlevel=3]]

### facts

* Sirius did not, as he is often accused, give Harry to Hagrid; he (Sirius)
  arrived second.[^20210517-1]

* Arcturus, Pollux, and Walburga Black were all alive when Sirius was sent to
  Azkaban without a trial.[^20210517-2]

[^20210517-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban_ 
    p. 212. © 2000 Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition.

[^2010517-2]: See my notes on the [[History]] page.

### Speculation

#### Lack of a trial

Why was Sirius denied a trial?  More, how was it *possible* to deny him a trial?
It is reasonable to accept that [[Lupin]] both believed him guilty and would
have been unable to demand a trial.  Why, however, did none of [[Dumbledore]],
Andromeda Black, or his own blood family demand a trial?

Lets start with the easy ones:  Arcturus, Pollux, and Walburga Black.  We know
that Walburga hated her son, enough to want him disowned.  We further know,
because Sirius inherited number 12 Grimmauld Place, that neither Orion (died
1979) nor Arcturus Black (died 1991) did so.[^20210517-3]  However, we can
infer the following from the fact that they *also* did not disown Bellatrix and
Regulus Black:
* they at very least were not opposed to Riddle's pure-blood terrorism
* they probably (given what we know of Walburga at least) supported Riddle
* they cared more about the survival of the name Black than Sirius' beliefs

My guess is that they held themselves apart from actually joining the Death
Eaters, and thus did not *know* that Sirius had not joined.  They saw his
incarceration thus as being one of two alternatives:
* he is guilty and thus they could at last be somewhat proud of him
* he is innocent and thus continues to be a disgrace.

Given that, I believe they would find the lack of a trial almost palatable, they
would somewhat fear to find out which alternative is true.  If he is in fact
guilty, then when Riddle returns (which they *probably* expected, the Malfoy
family certainly seems to have expected it) then he would be freed from Azkaban.
If he was innocent, then it is a shame the family name would die out, but better
that no one know their shame (that Sirius is a blood traitor).  

Thus they were essentially betting on the odds that Sirius was both in fact
guilty (and thus the trial would not help him) and that Riddle would return
before Sirius died, thus giving him (Sirius) an opportunity to
procreate.[^20210517-4]

Why did Andromeda not demand a trial?  My guess is that she falls sufficiently
into the "trust Dumbledore" category that she believes his testimony about the
betrayal even if the only evidence of her Order membership is the use of her
house as a safe house.[^20210517-5]

What about [[Dumbledore]]?  It really comes down to what did he know when.  Was
anything said in the Potter wills?  We do not know. Did he have any indication,
from Snape for example, that Pettigrew was in fact the traitor?  Again, we do
not know.  This *might* be simply Dumbledore not caring to use political capital
to ensure a trial that should not change anything (Sirius if guilty would have
still gone to Azkaban). 

[^2010517-3]: See my notes on the [[History]] page.

[^20210517-4]: Some writers have speculated that long term exposure to dementors
    would affect virility, fertility, or both.   I am unaware of any cannon
    reason to believe this.

[^20210517-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_
    better citation needed. 

#### Sirius as Godparent

Does Sirius recognise that Harry is not James reincarnated?  Is he an adrenaline
junkie, or can he help Harry learn to make mature decisions about dangerous
situations?  Is the antagonism with [[Snape]] due to hatred for one whose
loyalty he suspects might in fact be towards Riddle, or is it evidence that he
remains the immature bully he admits he was a youth?[^20210519-11]  In short,
does Sirius deserve the censure that [[Molly]] and [[Hermione]] at times level
upon him?

[^20210519-11]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ Kindle Locations 9822-9830 of 13038. 
    Pottermore Limited © 2005. American Kindle Edition. 

[[!tag "HP Notes"]]
