## Severus Snape

One of Mrs. Rowling great themes across the [[Harry]] Potter series is the redeeming
power of love.  She is absolutely right to consider love one of the most
powerful forces in existence, and one of the most magical.  As she is writing
for children, I cannot fault her wanting to make the world more nearly black and
white, with good guys and bad guys.  In such a world, Snape, being one of the
good guys, must be redeemed.  [[Harry]], being even more clearly one of the good
guys, must not only be part of his redemption, but must recognise and champion
it.  This gives us the epilogue, with a child of [[Harry]]'s named Albus Severus,
the two characters that Mrs. Rowling most wants the reader to forgive.

The books are, however, not *really* children's books at all.  I disagree with
classifying the latter books as such, and am restricting my own children's reading of them,
keeping them at one book a year starting from when they turn eight. The first
few books are fine, while there are some troubling things in them, it will
largely go over a child's head with little risk of influence or damage.
However, as one advances through the books, there is more that requires mature
judgement, because more and more, the characters are making decisions, and in
the case of the adults, revealing past decisions, that require the reader to
recognise that good people can make bad choices, and, yes, bad people can make
good choices.  

Severus Snape is a very grey character.  He, like most children, starts out
fallen, but essentially unformed.  He comes from an abusive
background,[^20200806-1] and
apparently has very little of [[Harry]]'s extraordinary resilience.  As such, he is
damaged.  He is given no help to recover from this damage. We have no true
picture of what [[Hogwarts]] looked like while the Marauders, Lily and Severus were
there, but that much we can be fairly certain of.  We know that some of the
Slytherins students are either openly Death Eaters, or are openly vying to
become Death Eaters.[^20200806-2]  We know that at least one female student was
assaulted in an unknown way by [[dark magic|Magic]], that Snape calls it funny, and Lily
calls it evidence of Mulciber being "creepy."[^20200806-3]  I could go on, but
you can see that already, McGonagall and [[Dumbledore]] are allowing not just
pranks, but actual evil to go unpunished.  In such an environment, the needs of
victims are not going to be addressed. 

Coming out of [[Hogwarts]], Snape joins the Death Eaters, while continuing his
studies in potions.  We do not know what the balance of his time is, we do not
know what atrocities he participated in.  We do know that he gets the dark
mark, we do not know if he had it prior to hearing the prophesy fragment or not.
Was it a reward, or did he earn the mark in some other way?  That answer could
significantly change your view of how much evil Snape has done by commission
versus omission during this phase of his life.  

[[Dumbledore]]'s view is that becoming a spy balances the scales.  Snape needs no
punishment for his actions prior to hearing the prophesy.  I cannot agree.  He
may have earned some clemency, but not full clemency, and not without a true
trial.  [[Dumbledore]] is not God. 

Regardless, Snape is now, supposedly, a spy for [[Dumbledore]].  How much does he
know?  Does he know that Pettigrew is a Death Eater?  Does he know this before
Riddle goes to Godric's Hallow?  What precisely does Snape report to [[Dumbledore]]
during the 19 months or so between the prophesy stating that [[Harry]] _will_ be
born, and Halloween of 1981?  The answers to these questions also play a
critical part in assessing Severus Snape, and yet are unanswered. 

Snape becomes a teacher in the fall of either 1981 or 1982, replacing Slughorn.  It is really really hard to form
an objective understanding of Snape as a teacher.  Most of the time we see his
class, he puts directions on the board and expects the students to brew a potion
without help, while he stalks the room criticising those he dislikes (most of
them).  I have not end-to-end read the series in a few years now, and I cannot
find with spot checking the books any examples of him doing anything else.  I
have this vague memory however of at least one example of a lecture in potions
class.  

Irregardless of if he does every actually teach, his behaviour during these "lab"
classes is unacceptable.  The labs are unsafe, and his treatment of the students
unprofessional.  I suspect, however, that it would be _legal_ in, say, 1800s
England, and as the wizarding world seems to have frozen at least a century ago,
Snape is probably not doing anything punishable, just something reprehensible. 

His behaviour as Head of House is something else.  Again, it is not something
that the DMLE could take exception to, except in that if he had had a trial, and
if he were on probation, this would probably violate or at least call into
question the terms of that probation.  Snape is very much furthering the
atmosphere that he himself experienced as a student.  How much of this is
because he is allowed to, and how much is because he is instructed to?
[[Dumbledore]] is never seen to use his power as Chief of the Wizengamot or Supreme
Mugwump (I refuse to believe these are powerless).  How much of Snape's behaviour
in the school is part of [[Dumbledore]]'s plans for setting up the final
confrontation when Riddle returns?  We do not know.  We do have clues,
[[Dumbledore]] does seem to, extremely gently, remonstrate Snape about his views of
[[Harry]].  This *suggests* that [[Dumbledore]] is permissive, not legislative about
Snape.  I think that [[Dumbledore]] wants them all, Snape included, to turn away
from these acts spontaneously inspired purely by example, without influence of
punishment. 

Snape, as Head of House, is acting in loco parentis, I think even more than the
Headmaster does.  It is his responsibility to help form his students, his
failure to punish them is neglect.  His covering for them is teaching them to
disregard moral standards.  His behaviour implicitly and sometimes explicitly
rewards bad behaviour.  This is a problem. 

As Riddle returns, what does Snape know about his activities?  What could he
have told [[Dumbledore]] but chooses to hold back?  What does he tell [[Dumbledore]]
publicly (at least in front of other Order members) versus what he shares in
private alone?  What does [[Dumbledore]] know (from Snape's reports) but refuse to
act on?  We do not know the answer to these questions; we cannot assess Snape as
a spy.  Knowing these answers is important to know if he was ever truly
redeemed, or if he was putting on a show for [[Dumbledore]].  Ultimately, knowing
these answers is also important to assess *[[Dumbledore]]* for while he faced to
classic problem of when to act on knowledge gained from a spy, his inaction
cannot be wholly excused.  

Snape becomes Headmaster during what would have been [[Harry]]'s seventh year.  We
get only a few glimpses of his tenure.  We know that he catches [[Ginny]] attempting
to steal the sword for [[Harry]], he must have had access to her unprotected mind,
but he assigns her detention with *Hagrid.*  [[Harry]] is right, Ron is wrong, that
was not intended as a serious detention.  How much worse would [[Hogwarts]] have
been had a different Death Eater been Headmaster?  How much could Snape have
done to curb problems that he did not do?  We cannot know.  We know he helped
some at least. 

Snape is trying to reach [[Harry]] when Riddle decides he must die.  He (Snape) uses
his the last of his strength to give [[Harry]] memories necessary for [[Harry]] to
finally have a true understanding of the situation.  At least some of this is
because Snape is committed to following [[Dumbledore]]'s plans.  The extra memories
of Snape's life are, in my opinion, necessary if [[Harry]] is to believe the final,
critical memories of Snape's interactions with [[Dumbledore]].  The extra memories
are not, I think, *entirely* altruistic however.  I think Snape wanted to be
thought well of in these final moments.  He showed a view of himself that could
inspire sympathy. I think that was intentional, I think his motivation was thus
complex. 

Snape is a complex character.  He was not irredeemable, and even though he is
fictional, there are enough questions about his life that I cannot judge him.  I
can say that were I [[Harry]] I would never have named a child after him.  I hope I
would forgive him, but I cannot honour him.  He could have been so much greater
than he was. 

[^20200806-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.  _Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows_.
Chapter 33.  Pottermore.  American Kindle Edition. 

[^20200806-2]: Ibid.

[^20200806-3]: Ibid.

[[meta title="Severus Snape"]]
