---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-04-01 17:34:00"
tags:
  - ", "morality-religion
---
<p>
 We now know that our Pope will likely die
 in the next few days, baring a miracle.  "<a href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20050401/D896N6880.html">Pope
 Said Conscious, in Grave Condition</a> states that the chances
 of him surviving the "septic shock" that he is said to have
 and be experiencing, is very very low.  The other day I found "<a href="http://www.nationalreview.com/comment/thiessen200503311119.asp">The
 Blessed Sounds of Silence</a>" from some blog, most likely
 Michelle Malkin's.  It is a very lucid, very moving reflection.
 Pray for our Pope, as he finishes his life, but more, pray for us
 who he leaves behind, we are all loosing a great Pope, a great man.
 We are all, in a very real sense, loosing our father.  At least,
 that is how it feels to me, the Church is my home, and the Pope
 is the head of that family, just as my father was unquestionably
 the head of ours.  An self-proclaimed atheist in #gaim said to
 me yesterday "either way, I hope the Church has half the wisdom
 of appointing a suitable replacement. He is a much beloved man,
 even by many of us non-Catholics."  He is a man who has touched
 the whole world, truly lived as "pope," which I understand is a
 derivative of "papa."</p>

<p>Yesterday my mom and brothers went to the Gift of Peace house
in D.C.  The Sisters expect that we will see an increase in evil as
a result of this ending mess surrounding the life, and now death,
of Mrs. Schiavo.  Pray for us, Holy Father, before God, we are in
need of your intercession, for us, before Him, more than ever.</p>

