---

title: 20050323-0734
date: 2005-03-23 12:34:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

<p> I have learned that the 11th Circuit Court has refused to order
the reinsertion of Mrs. Schiavo's feeding tube.  One of the three
judges dissented.  The AP leans fairly heavily towards death in "<a href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20050323/D890I7N00.html">Schiavo
Appeal to Reconnected Tube Denied</a>," but perhaps I am giving
them less credit than I should; they do mention

<blockquote>In court documents, the couple said their daughter began
"a significant decline" late Monday. Her eyes were sunken and dark,
and her lips and face were dry.<br  />

"While she still made eye contact with me when I spoke to her,
she was becoming increasingly lethargic," Bob Schindler said in the
papers. "Terri no longer attempted to verbalize back to me when I
spoke to her."<br  />

Louise Cleary, a spokeswoman at Woodside Hospice, said she
could not discuss Terri Schiavo's condition for reasons of
privacy. </blockquote> </p>

<p>Michelle Malkin <a href="http://michellemalkin.com/archives/001831.htm">has
a better write-up</a>.  She also points out the
irony that someone who doesn't have a right to life
still has a right to privacy.  There is something
<strong><em>SERIOUSLY</em></strong> wrong with that picture.
David Limbaugh also added to his archive last night, posting <a href="http://www.davidlimbaugh.com/mt/archives/2005/03/i_love_this_ema.html">an
email he was sent</a> which asks a question my mom asked me
yesterday.  It is one thing for the court to have ordered and
enforced the feeding tube removal, a horrid decision, but perhaps our
deplorable legal system necessitates it.  (I do not think it does,
but perhaps.)  It is beyond that for them to order and enforce no
ice chips or such.  If she truly cannot swallow, truly cannot take
anything orally, there is no need for this order: such attempts
would fail to keep her hydrated, her own family would prevent
them to give her a few last hours while they fight for her life.
It thus follows that what we have here is not just an attempt to
"let nature take its course" without the feeding tube, but to ensure
she dies.  That is a depressing thought.</p>

