---

title: Wizarding World Culture
date: Fri Apr 17 09:50:00 2020 -0400
layout: rut
---

[[!toc levels=2 startlevel=3]]
## Wizarding World Culture

Of all the many world building elements in the Harry Potter series, this is 
perhaps the most debated.  Mrs. Rowling has given us a very incomplete and at 
times contradictory look into the world that [[Harry]] re-encounters as he turns 
eleven.  Just how separate is the "Wizarding World" from that which those
without magic inhabit? How many of the differences are due to the school
environment that dominates the books?  How many real differences does a school
environment populated by adolescents suppress?  Fanfiction has explored any number
of paths by adding all sorts of details as different fans have needed different
elements to make their stories work. 

[^210329-24]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire_
    Kindle Locations 964-966. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^210329-23]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    "["The Leaky Cauldron and Mugglenet interview Joanne Kathleen Rowling: Part Three](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2005/0705-tlc_mugglenet-anelli-3.htm)"
    2005-07-16. Last Viewed 2021-03-29.

[^210329-21]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. Better citation needed. 

[^210329-22]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. Better citation needed. 

[^210329-20]: Ms. Mercedes Lackey and Ms. Andre Norton. _The Elvenbane:
    Halfbood Chronicles Book 1_ 1991-11-01. Tor Books; ISBN-13: 978-0312851064
    exact citation needed. 

#### Separation from the Non-Magical World

We do not know precisely how or when the British magical society began to
separate from the non-magical world.  While the [International Statute of
Wizarding Secrecy][ISWS-1] is fairly precisely dated, the government that
ratified it on behalf of the British people is not. The popular theory is that,
for one reason or another, the ruling class among the wizards (which may or may
not have been a democratically elected body and thus all of them) convinced the
Crown to sign a treaty granting them some level of autonomy in exchange for
fealty and non-interference.  Stories like _Not Normal_[^210406-47], _A Military
Man_[^210406-48], and _Mutant Storm_[^210406-49] all fall into this  category,
though there are others.  Most seem to call this treaty "The Treaty of Kent"
though there seams to be no true basis for this name.  While most authors have
settled on that as a name, there is no similar consensus on a date for this
inferred treaty.  The one that makes the most sense to me is that from _Not
Normal_, that it came out of the unrest from the War of the Roses.[^210406-50]

If you go with this theory, while the two governments might have been split at
this time time, it was not in fact illegal for wizards to live among or do
business with non-wizards by virtue of this treaty, and would not be until the
ISWS came in the late 1600s.  However, with the advent of the ISWS, many things
that some wizards, like the [[Malfoys|Families/Malfoy]], had been doing for
years, suddenly became illegal.  This prompted the British wizards to revisit
their system of government and revamp it into the more centralised, more
organised, and (theoretically) more effective Ministry of Magic.  

This theory fits the available cannon sources.  If the two societies had not
*already* been largely split, then implementing the ISWS would not have been
practicable.  If the two societies had been already *effectively* split, then
the ISWS would not have been necessary.  British people being who and what they
are, and the ISWS being a "foreign" concept (IE not originated by them), they
would not have gone for it unless it solved a local need.  While there *was* an
up swing in witch hunts in the mid 1600s, it was never a particularly wide
spread or particularly effective practice in Britain.[^210406-51] 

On the other hand, suppose there were *already* two societies, even if some
members crossed over more than the ISWS would permit.  Further suppose, per the
Treaty of Kent (or whatever name) theory, there were *already* in place
mechanisms for dealing with land ownership, taxes, law enforcement, and
citizenship across the two societies.  For all its flaws, _Not Normal_ does a
fairly good job of world building a history of the separation for
example.[^210406-52] In that case, it would be a case of making those properties
secret, and the offices in charge of keeping them separate equally so.  That is
much more obtainable than implementing all of that in a vacuum to solve a threat
that largely does not exist, is already in decline to the extent it does exist,
and requires admitting that those who do not have magic are a threat to (and
thus not fully inferior to) those who do. 

Mrs. Rowling, on the Pottermore website (and thus the wizardingworld successor
site), devotes considerable energy to the supposed back story for the magical
community in the United States, and its relationship to the ISWS.[^210510-2] I
[[debunk|MACUSA]] that history elsewhere. For that reason I use the prequel
movies and the website articles as canonical only when convenient. 

[^210510-2]: Mrs J. K. Rowling. 
    "[J.K. Rowling Originals](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling)"
    Last Visited 2021-05-10.
    * "[The Magical Congress of the United States of America \(MACUSA\)](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/macusa)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-10-06. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10
    * "[Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/ilvermorny)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-06-28. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10
    * "[1920s Wizarding America](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/1920s-wizarding-america-en)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-03-11. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10
    * "[Rappaport’s Law](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/rappaports-law-en)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-03-10. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10
    * "[Seventeenth Century and Beyond](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/seventeenth-century-and-beyond-en)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-03-09. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10
    * "[Fourteenth Century – Seventeenth Century](https://www.wizardingworld.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/fourteenth-century-to-seventeenth-century-en)"
      Originally Published on Pottermore 2016-03-08. Last Viewed: 2021-05-10

[^210406-49]: Bobmin356. _[Mutant Storm](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7404056)_
    [Chapter 15](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7404056/15/Mutant-Storm)
    Published: 2011-09-22. Updated: 2011-09-26. Last Viewed: 2021-04-06. 

[^210406-48]: Writer of olde. _[A Military Man](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11494711)_
    [Chapter 7](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11494711/7/A-Military-Man)
    Published: 2015-09-07. Updated: 2017-02-01. Last Viewed: 2021-04-06.

[^210406-47]: Radaslab. _[Not Normal](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149)_
    [Chapter 21](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149/21/Not-Normal). Published:
    2011-07-04. Updated: 2013-08-10. Last Viewed: 2021-04-06. 

[^210406-50]: Radaslab. _[Not Normal](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149)_
    [Chapter 21](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149/21/Not-Normal). Published:
    2011-07-04. Updated: 2013-08-10. Last Viewed: 2021-04-06. 

[^210406-52]: Radaslab. _[Not Normal](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7144149)_
    Several different chapters, and partially revised by the unfinished sequel.
    Published: 2011-07-04. Updated: 2013-08-10. Last Viewed: 2021-04-06. 

[^210406-51]: I note this upswing in the [[timeline|History]]. 

[ISWS-1]: <https://www.hp-lexicon.org/thing/international-statute-of-secrecy>

