---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-02-03 20:34:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
Biometrics are starting to be deployed commercially according to "<a href="http://news.com.com/Supermarket+Let+your+fingers+do+the+paying/2100-1029_3-5559074.html?part=rss&tag=5559074&subj=news.1029.20">Supermarket:
Let your fingers do the paying</a>" from <a href="http://news.com.com">News.com</a>.  A Seattle Washington
grocery store allows you to register a credit or debit card to
a fingerprint, and then pay by fingerprint.  While this sounds
incredibly convenient, there are a myriad of concerns that should
be considered.  Even assuming the system used is hard to fool, do
you really want to be uniquely identified with what you purchase?
Stores want to have data about you, consider some of the stuff going
on with radio id tags, Walmart&#xae;; for instance was curious about
what parts of the store people buying various things will visit,
and how long they spend where.  Consider if someone did find a way to
fake out the system, how would you go about trying to prove it?  Can
you imagine trying to say "yes, I know that my finger print was used,
but I didn't really buy that" with a straight face?  Do you think
anyone would believe you?  Consider something somewhat more mundane.
Now instead of just using your credit card once, they get to store
your credit card number.  How secure is the server storing it?
Can it be hacked?  Can someone walk off with it?  Pranas says that
the company he worked for had a server stolen recently.  Not only
that, they aren't even sure it was an inside job.  If a government
contractor cannot keep employees personal information secure,
how well do you think a grocery store or convenience store would do?

