---

title: 20050203-1153
date: 2005-02-03 16:53:00
tags:
  - personal
layout: rut
---

With some help from Vincas in designing a regular expression,
I dressed up this log some today. Dates are now pretty
printed, and times have a colon in them.  I lift them in
24 hour format, I like that better, all my clocks except
the alarm clock that cannot, are set to 24 hour time.
I'm happy with the result, but I'm not so happy with the
code generating it. Being unable to figure out the output for <a href="http://us4.php.net/manual/en/function.preg-split.php">preg_split()</a>,
I was forced to use 5 lines of code instead of 3.
This is especially disheartening since a series of <a href="http://us4.php.net/manual/en/function.substr.php">substr()</a>
calls would have only taken 4 lines of code.<br  /><br  />

Got to see Ederlyn and Joe at Pub Quiz last night.  That was nice.
None of our teams (we had 3) won, I managed to get two wrong myself,
but that still would not have put my team in the tie breaker.
Apparently Philadelphia had the first stock market in the United
States, and I forget what other one I was responsible for having
missed.  In other news, we are holding a degree this Saturday, I
meant to see if Nicholas was working Saturday or Sunday last night,
but forgot.  Going will mean we miss some of WCACs for Michael,
but I most likely ought to go to the degree even if Nicholas cannot.
Thus if Nicholas can, I figure 'tis best to do so now than wait yet
another month or three.  Sunday is Chris and John's Super bowl party,
I almost did not accept that invitation, just as I almost did not
go to Pub Quiz last night.  Don't know why on either one.<br  /><br  />

Mom is having trouble sending and receiving from Mrs. Moffatt.
Finally got around to looking at my mail logs today, and
interestingly enough, cox is *not showing up in them at all*.
One or two incoming messages, and no outgoing ones.  I think my
next stop will be Mom's address book.

