[[!meta  title="The Bible in the classroom"]] 
[[!meta  date="2005-08-02 20:29:48"]] 
The New York Times has an article on the attempts of a Texas school district to
provide a class on the Bible as an elective.[^1]  There are some obvious flaws
here on both sides.  Providing needless ammunition to those who would have the
United States follow Europe's disastrous course to complete secularization[^2]
is something that, had I been the one designing this curriculum, I would have
gone out of my way to avoid.  The authors apparently had other ideas, feeling it
necessary, according to the New York Times report, to include sections on
disproving evolution, and poorly researched claims that NASA has verified that
the Earth has halted in its orbit.  On the other hand, telling students that
"Throughout most of the last 2,000 years, the majority of men living in the
Western world have accepted the statements of the Scriptures as genuine."[^3] is
a simple statement of fact, no matter what the origin of that particular wording
might be.

The authors are somewhat subtle in their bias, they call the idea that the
Constitution was framed with Christian ideals and principles firmly in mind
"dubious" (actually they state that it is a dubious claim to say it is based on
"Scripture," but given Protestantism, I feel it amounts to the same thing).  And
no, this is not phrased as part of the critic's assertions; it simply isn't
worded as a summary of their position, but rather as at statement of what points
they target.  I am not saying this clearly. ugh. Basically I think it
interesting that anything in favor of this curriculum is explicitly a quote or
paraphrase, while this is not.

Really though, if this course is as flawed as presented, we are in the long run
better off without it.  We do not need to be setting ourselves up for a loss if
we truly want to keep in the public consciousness the deeply held religious
beliefs of our founding fathers.  We do not need to be applauding evangelical
content in public schools if the cost is putting science and religion a false
opposition that will prevent these children from believing Catholicism.

[^1]: Blumenthal, Ralph and Barbara Novovitch.  "Bible Course Becomes
    a Test for Public Schools in Texas" The New York Times (online) 2005-08-01.
    <http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/01/education/01bible.html?ei=5088&en=889c612a8072328a&ex=1280548800&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss&pagewanted=print>

[^2]: Several notes:
    * Schierer, Luke.  "[[20050602-1052|20050602/20050602-1052]]" Random Unfinished Thoughts, June 02, 2005. 
    * Schierer, Luke. "[[20050502-1503|20050502/20050502-1503]]" Random Unfinished Thoughts, May 02, 2005. 
    * Schierer, Luke.  "[[Be Fruitful and multiply|20050713/be-fruitful-and-multiply]]" Random Unfinished Thoughts, July 13, 2005. 

[^3]: Blumenthal, Ralph and Barbara Novovitch.  "Bible Course Becomes
    a Test for Public Schools in Texas" The New York Times (online) 2005-08-01.
    <http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/01/education/01bible.html?ei=5088&en=889c612a8072328a&ex=1280548800&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss&pagewanted=print>

[[!tag  society]]
