---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-02-02 16:43:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<strong>news</strong><br  /><br  />

<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/2-1-2005/20050201111503_09.html">Utah
Amending Gay-Marriage Ban Problems</a><br  /> Bad news: Utah's ban
on Gay Marriages might cause trouble for custodial grandparents.
Good news: it causes problems for people who live together but do
not marry.  Bad news: Utah thinks that's a problem. <br  /><br  />

<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/2-1-2005/20050201111503_20.html">Conn.
Execution Highlights 'Syndrome'</a><br  /> I don't know what to make
of this one.  Death row is apparently depressing.  So much so, that
some people sentenced to death are giving up on possible appeals
because they think they would rather die than face life on death row.
Part of me thinks this is horrid.  How much of this atmosphere is
because they are facing execution?  How much of it is because they
are facing their crimes?  The former is unjust, the latter is just.
I'd rather they not be executed, I tend to think we <em>could</em>
incarcerate them for life, and, if so, that would be a morally
preferable sentence.  I think it would be more just also; let them
sit in jail, freedom and luxury proscribed, and face the horror
they brought into the world.  Deny them the escape they think death
will give them.  Let them have the chance to purge their guilt
here on earth than in the hereafter.  Of course, if we persist in
saying that "life in prison" is 40 years, then we have a problem.
In that case, perhaps the death penalty is still needed.  In which
case we have a different problem, this type of thing will be used
to release people who should not be released.  All very complex.
I don't know what to make of it, other than there is precious little
that is good about it.<br  /><br  />

<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/phyllisschlafly/ps20050131.shtml">Fatherhood
faces stacked deck in family court</a><br  /> An insightful look
into the ways in which we deny fatherhood, its rights, and its
responsibilities.  A look into the ways in which the Supreme Court
decisions affirming fatherhood are being evaded.  Proof, if more
were needed, of the problems we introduce by allowing divorce,
especially no fault divorce.  Proof, if more were needed, that for
men, for certain crimes, we are not "innocent until proven guilty,"
and that our understandable, laudable, urge to protect the victimized
has caused great injustice.  We need to remember that people are
fallen, that original sin is real.  We need to remember that not
every accusation of abuse, sexual, physical, verbal, whatever,
in a marriage or outside of one, is true.  That there are good
men falsely accused, good teachers falsely accused.  Men, women,
and children who will make any assertion, however false, to get
some petty revenge.  That there are twisted people who go into
psychology and social work not out of love for their fellow man,
but to use their authority to enact their own revenge against the
human race.  Which is not to say that such are the only people
who go into these fields.  Maybe they aren't even the majority.
But they do great harm.<br  /><br  />

<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/marktapscott/mt20050131.shtml">Focus
on Freedom of Information</a><br  /> Criminals have rights,
that is a given.  Those rights must be protected.  That is also
a given.  People have rights whether they are citizens or not.
That is yet still a given.  They also have responsibilities.
That <em>should</em> be a given.  But when people fail to live up
to their responsibilities, it is reasonable to expect that their
rights should then be curtailed, to protect those around them.
People who are not citizens here should not be allowed to go free
to continue their illegal presence here, especially not after having
committed further crimes.  The failure of the Federal Government to
deport them is indeed a significant failure, and Mark Tapscott is,
I think, justly upset.

