---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-06-15 19:43:00"
tags:
  - politics-law
---
<p>Rounding out the news I read this morning, Mr. Pat Buchanan wrote
an article on the debt forgiveness proposal that bears commenting
on.[1] In a couple respects he is correct.  He is correct that the
clause talking about the need to take anti-corruption measures is
a joke.  It means that either no debt relief will occur, or that
no reforms will.  He is also right when he says that we the tax
payer will ultimately bear the burden for this.</p>

<p>But he utterly ignores the fact that we would be doing so anyway.
These debts are beyond the resources of the current, admittedly
corrupt, governments to pay.  With the current financial structure,
the presence of these bad loans would have served as reason to
further prop up these governments, lest they get overthrown and
the new government not agree to honor the debts.  Further, for
the most part, only interest was being paid anyway, the debt was
not decreasing.</p>

<p>While it would be nice to see the IMF and the World Bank held
accountable for these loans, it is useless to say that it should
happen just as it would to "any U.S. government bank" for two
reasons.  One, there ARE no "U.S. government banks.  The Federal
Reserve bank has a U.S. mandated monopoly on the production of money,
and uses government resources to do so, but it is a private bank.
As are all the other banks.  Secondly, only small banks are allowed
to fail anyway.  Bigger banks get rescued by the Federal Reserve
or by Congress directly just as big corporations such as Lockheed
or United Air have been.  This is exactly the same thing.</p>

<p>It is also the right thing to do.  Yes, these loans should never
have existed.  And yes, the governments are corrupt.  But that does
not excuse us crippling any chance these countries have for even
minuscule advancement under the heavy debt burden that currently
exists.  If we do not accept what are ultimately our own mistakes
(through our elected and appointed officials), these countries will
never have a chance to give their people a decent life.  And that
alone tells you what the right course of action is.  It is our fault
they have these loans, our fault that the interest cripples them.
It is thus ours to bear the default on them.</p>

[1] http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=44789

