---

title: 20050615-1352
date: 2005-06-15 18:52:00
tags:
  - ", "global-warming
  - ", "politics-law
layout: rut
---

<p>Mr. Robert Novak provides some details on the Kyoto accords that I
had not previously heard.[1] I have been against this treaty simply
because I think it is utterly misguided.  From what I gather, it
does not seem that we <em>can</em> undo the damage of global warming
that we have done so far, whatever amount of damage is our fault.
The push then seems to be couching a desire to minimize future
damage in terms of preventing inevitable catastrophe.  This seems
wrong-headed.  If the catastrophe is coming, we should push forward
as best we can to have the technology on hand to survive it.</p>

<p>Mr. Novak asserts that this treaty is about more than
environmentalism however.  If he is right, it is also an explicit
attempt to use environmentalism to cause Americans to accept a
decrease in our standard of living.  This causes a blip in my
radar screen because it was one of the things that was predicted
in the Federal Reserve book that I never finished.  It had some
kooky Lockness Monster type name.  Anyway, one of the ideas of the
part of the book that I did read was that various situations would
be used not to raise the third world up to first world lifestyles,
but to level the playing field by bring <em>down</em> the average.
Were this to actually happen, it would not surprise me to see it
coming with heavy European and Chinese pressures, as these are
socialist and communist governments already.  I am not saying
that the book is right, just that this sort of tendency bears
watching.</p>

[1] http://www.townhall.com/columnists/robertnovak/rn20050613.shtml

