---

title: 20050419-1039
date: 2005-04-19 15:39:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

<p> Some time ago, I first noticed a case in which a New
Mexico church is being baned from using a hallucinogenic tea
"sacramentally."  It is in the news again, with articles in <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/4458873.stm">the
BBC</a>, and in <a href="http://www.csmonitor.com/2005/0419/p03s02-usju.html">the CS
Monitor</a> (and others, but these are the two best articles I see).
I find that it is being looked at now because of the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 which ordered the courts to look
harder at religious exemptions to laws that are otherwise general
in application, something that the Supreme Court restricted rather
significantly in a 1990 decision.  When last I noted this, I wrote
the following:</p>

<blockquote>Also in today's news, religious
freedom is under attack, though subtly.  <a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/a/w/1154/12-1-2004/20041201153017_41.html">FindLaw</a>
documents the story, in which a New Mexico church is being blocked
by the Feds from using some weird hallucinogenic tea.  What is the
big deal you ask?  Surely we do not want people using hallucinogens
right?  Well, yes, but at what cost are we stopping them?  In a
rather unlikely scenario, say prohibition comes back and we sub out
hallucinogenic tea with wine.  Now back in the days of prohibition,
we had a stronger sense of religious freedom, so churches everywhere
had a dispensation, and were allowed to purchase and distribute wine
for use in Mass.  But under this sort of precedent, it would be all
too easy to say "alcohol is dangerous" and prevent, or at least make
illegal, the Mass.  Precedent is always dangerous to create you see.
You never know how it will be used.</blockquote>

