---

title: "20050613-1438"
date: 2005-06-13 19:38:00
tags:
  - personal
layout: rut
---

<p>A miserable day.  Friday was bad, I was all head-achy, though
I managed to stay awake, which is an improvement over Thursday.
Saturday was okay, I was stuffy and a lot of drainage, but more
or less okay.  Sunday was bad.  My voice sounded like laryngitis
and I was borderline head-achy all day.  Today is not much better.
I hate being sick, whatever cold I have caught is a pain.  I am
pretty sure its just a cold though, I am sick, but not in an
infection sort of way, I have had enough of those to know.</p>

<p>Nothing too noteworthy in the news today. Same old same old.
I rented "Ocean's 12" and "Electra" from Block Buster's yesterday.
I enjoyed both.  "Electra" was a little odd, and I am somewhat
disappointed that it never mentions Daredevil at all.  Will she
remember him?  Lots of eastern mysticism type stuff, but not
<em>too</em> much, not the overload you saw in the later Matrix
movies for example.  "Ocean's 12" was very enjoyable.  I understand
why people do not like it as much as the first one, but it was funny
and enjoyable.  It also closed things out rather more cleanly than
the previous one did.  The Julia Roberts acting as someone acting as
Julia Roberts thing was odd, and some of the lines in those scenes
were forced, but it did not spoil it for me.</p>

<p>But today I'm still not feeling right, my voice
is all messed up still, I am coughing some which I
think is just the decongestants finally taking some
effect (as I am not so stuffy).  I am also looking at <a href="http://clusterresources.com/products/mwm/">moab</a> again.
I hate moab.  I think that it partly solves a non-problem and
partly takes too much configuration to be worth the few problems it
does solve.  It also seems to be very much a pain in the neck to get
working correctly and keep working correctly.  I am not pleased.</p>

