---

title: "Harry and Ginny Between the Battle and the Epilogue"
date: 
layout: rut
---


In looking at these missing nineteen years, it is important to remember that
Mrs. Rowling wanted her books to age some with the readers, and said that it was
important to show them falling in love,[^211101-1] she really focused very
little on developing most of her characters.[^211101-2]  Thus we really know
very little about [[Ginny|Harry_Potter/Notes/Ginny]] - what kind of person she
is, her hopes, dreams, and, most importantly, how she relates to
[[Harry|Harry_Potter/Notes/Harry]].  

Not counting the various authors that write stories that start out Harry/Ginny
just long enough to break them up and focus on some other relationship that the
author is more interested in, we see essentially two views of Harry and Ginny's
relationship develop in most fanfiction. 

There is the approach that is *probably* more canonical, but leaves me less
satisfied.  This is the modern woman Ginny.  This Ginny is super focused on her
Quidditch career, probably to the detriment of her relationship with Harry.  She
may have had a fair amount of growing up to do even after graduating, due to
being sheltered by Molly and not actually prepared to face adult decisions.
Ultimately this life leaves her unsatisfied, and she eventually gets back
together with Harry.  They eventually have three children, whom the first two of
which Harry seems to name without her input.  Honestly, as you read this, it is
no wonder that so many fans are quite unhappy with the Harry/Ginny pairing. 

Alternately, you have the version of Ginny that we see glimpses of in the books
*prior* to the epilogue and the various interview tidbits, twitter comments, and
website additions that have fleshed out the glimpse of "what came after" that is
the epilogue.  This is the Ginny that was totally in sync with him at
Dumbledore's funeral.[^211101-4]  Who would, a month or so later, give her
"ex-boyfriend" a passionate kiss as a birthday present.[^211101-5]  Who may have
been eager to join the battle, but did not argue with him when he asked her to
hide in the Room of Requirement.[^211101-6]  There are a few other scenes I
could pick from as well.  This Ginny is passionately devoted to Harry, her
family, her friends.  Sure she loves Quidditch as much as Harry does.  I can
totally see her wanting a professional career in the sport.  

This is the Ginny we see in Bodmin's _[Healing Harry][bmhh1]_, in many of
sbmcneil's works, either on her [ao3 page][sbmao3], or her [ffn page][sbcffn]
(the two only *mostly* overlap).  Stories like _[Unintended
Consequences][sbcmUC]_, _[Without A Trace][sbcmWT]_ have her pick other careers
that balance the needs of the family.  If I recall correctly,
_[Remember][sbmR1]_ does not definitively state either way, but implies that
Ginny fits Quidditch around her family's needs.  In _[The Lost Year][kLY1]_
Ginny re-evaluates her priorities, and realises Quidditch comes second to being
with Harry.  That story has a fairly extreme deviation from canon, but honestly,
isn't the actual experiences she went through in book seven enough to make
someone think about life and the future that way?  _[Bone(s) to Pick][dB2P1]_
summarises this Ginny: Quidditch is just one of her dreams, and sometimes dreams
are mutually exclusive.[^211101-7]

[dB2P1]: https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13766417

[kLY1]: https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13815274

[sbmR1]: https://archiveofourown.org/works/13244409

[sbcmWT]:https://archiveofourown.org/works/14101779

[sbcmUC]: https://archiveofourown.org/works/14271909

[sbcffn]: https://www.fanfiction.net/u/1816754/sbmcneil

[sbmao3]: https://archiveofourown.org/users/sbmcneil/pseuds/sbmcneil

[bmhh1]: https://bobmin.fanficauthors.net/Healing_Harry

[^211101-7]: Direwolf51.
    _[Bone(s) to Pick](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13766417)_
    "[Epilogue](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/13766417/12/Bone-s-to-Pick)"
    Published: 2020-12-11. Last Viewed: 2021-11-02.

[^211101-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
    p. 250. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^211101-5]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
    pp. 47-48. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition. 

[^211101-4]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
    p. 537. Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition.

[^211101-2]: I complain bitterly about this in my [[Notes|Harry_Potter/Notes]]
    on the series.

[211101-1]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    "[The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet interview Joanne Kathleen Rowling: Part
    Two](http://www.accio-quote.org/articles/2005/0705-tlc_mugglenet-anelli-2.htm)"
    [Accio-Quote](http://www.accio-quote.org) 2005-07-16.

