---

title: 20050209-0952
date: 2005-02-09 14:52:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

2 small steps forward today on the pro-life front.  "<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1500/2-8-2005/20050208134509_28.html">Embryo
Ruling Could Have Ripple Effect</a>" is an interesting case in which
an Illinois couple has sued a fertility clinic for allowing an embryo
they hoped would become their child to die.  This is only a small
step because the article claims there is a significant chance this
case will not hold up on appeal.  Hopefully the fact of the case
itself will hold up, as even that is up for appeal in this case
apparently, as there is some question as to the applicability
of the Illinois law in question.  The second item is "<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/2-8-2005/20050208140004_25.html">Va.
House OKs Gay Marriage Amendment Ban</a>," apparently this must be
voted on once again after an election, and then goes to a referendum.
This long process still ahead, at least 3 more votes, one of which
is by the populace at large, is why I consider this a small step.
Still, it passed both House and Senate by significant margins, so
there is reason to hope.  Yesterday I encountered disagreement on
this issue that I wasn't expecting.  Sean believes that the state
governments do not have any business regulating what is or is not a
marriage, and thus have no business denying gay "marriage" requests.
To my thinking the role of the state is to recognize what exists
independently of the state, with our without their recognition,
and to add the support of the civil governance to the new couple in
addition to the support of the community.  Thus, a man cannot truly
marry a man, nor a woman truly marry a woman, it becomes tautological
that the state cannot and must not recognize such a "marriage."

