[[!meta  title="20050421-1148"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-04-21 15:48:00"]]
<p> John Leo <a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/johnleo/jl20050418.shtml">asks</a>
a very good question: "Do we really need yet another major assault
on a prominent politician, or can we spend some time discussing
actual issues?"  He rightly points out that we only tend to object
to such attacks when they are against someone we mostly agree with.
But he seems to lump together the attack of the Swift Boat Veterans
against John Kerry with the democratic comparisons of President Bush
to the Nazi regime.  To me, these seem like incredibly different
things.  John Kerry unquestionably misrepresented his involvement
in the Vietnam War.  The Swift Boat Veterans called him on this,
attacked him for his duplicity, and for his record then and since.
This is a necessary part of political debate.  Do you want someone
who routinely lies to you as your president?  Someone fervently
against the military as Commander in Chief during a time of conflict
(unjustifiable conflict perhaps, but that is a different issue, we
are in it and need to finish it right)?  Should we not have access
to the truths of the candidate's positions and record?  These seem
fairly self-evident questions.  Conversely, what new information does
the comparison of President Bush to the Nazis add to the debate?
If you hate his policies, attack them.  If you think he really
did lie about the situation in Iraq, present your evidence for
that assertion.  Should Tom DeLay have called the ruling to remove
Mrs. Schivao's feeding tube "medical terrorism"?  No, probably not.
It was a hyperbolic statement of the sort that politicians should
be careful of.  Should he have come down strongly and publicly
against it?  Should he be working for judicial reform if he thinks
that represents an abuse?  Absolutely.  Should he campaign for support
for that reform?  Yes, he should.  Does the fact that some now (and
would otherwise still) send death threats to Judge Greer stop him?
No, it shouldn't.  Fanatics and extremists, insanity of all sorts,
looms in any extreme position, and thus in any issue.  We must not
let that stop us from seeking to move forward.  And we cannot allow
deceitful politicians impede that progress by misrepresentation
of themselves and their positions either.</p>

[[!tag  uncategorized]]