---

title: 20050421-1807
date: 2005-04-21 23:07:00
layout: rut
---

<p> A (relatively) long time ago, I <a href="view.php?date=20050125-1135">wrote</a> <a href="view.php?date=20050127-1430">about</a> the no smoking policy of Weyco, a Michigan based
health care company.  For those that do not remember, or have
not read that far back in time, Weyco prohibits employees from
smoking <strong>at all</strong>.  Not just on company time or
company property, but even at home.  They have instituted the sort
of random drug testing more common with illegal drugs to enforce
the ban also.  At first I was somewhat in favor of this, certainly
ambivalent.  In my second glance, I am mostly against it, though
still somewhat unsure.  This long introduction comes because of <a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/GuestColumns/Stossel20050420.shtml">this
article</a>.  Apparently some of the smokers are quite upset over
this policy.  And some of them are pushing law makers in Michigan
to prevent it.  With at least some success.  In my views of it so
far, I have focused on its potential impact on the employee, and
(via the premiums we pay) on the person's co-workers and society
as a whole.  John Stossel takes a different approach.  He looks
at it from the point of view of the employer, who, in this case,
is Mr. Weyers, owner of the company.  Where does his freedom to
employ who he wants, to pay who he wants, start?  Where does it stop?
While this is a company doing this, and <em>not</em> a government,
the freedom to work elsewhere exists.  So since it is his company
and his money, why should not he have the freedom to enact and
enforce his own standards?  If he thinks it is morally wrong to
smoke, a tenable position (see my second post on this subject),
naturally he should enforce such a policy.  On the other hand,
given the impact on premiums, its easy to see smoking leading to a
sort of blacklisting effect.  At first, this would tend me towards
"but people have a right to work, the right to earn a living to
raise their family."  Which is true, they do.  But this is not a
life-time ban; they simply have to quit smoking, something that
would be good for them anyway.  So in that sense, it is much like
saying the alcoholic needs to get help and get in control of his
addiction before he will be able to hold a job, something that is
eminently reasonable, and eminently common sensical.  So I guess my
overall conclusion is that since this <strong>is</strong> a company,
and not a government, and in light of the premium impact on others,
and in light of the need to respect the employer's freedom and
responsibilities as well as the employee's, it appears that this
sort of policy is justifiable.  I do am not so sure the same thing
would hold true of a government policy implementing the same sort
of thing.  And I am less sure of this with regards to weight than
I am smoking, as I still believe our idea of "overweight" is off
kilter (note I also still admit I need to loose <em>some</em> weight.
Just not as much as the federal definitions would require.).</p>

