[[!meta  title="Heather has two Mommies"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-08-23 14:39:41"]]
<p>Heaven help us, disorder is scattered all through a recent decision in California granting that, in essence, Heather can have two mommies.<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/23/national/23gay.html?ex=1282449600&en=53ca9ebfd7af347a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss">[1]</a> The disorder of artificial insemination becomes clear here as the father is stripped of his parenthood, and two women are listed as the parents on the birth certificate.  Needless to day, this is a biological impossibility.  There is no question of "rights" here, it is simply impossible, you might as well say that you have a "right" for it to be sunny tomorrow.  But if this donation does not confer parenthood in its original incarnation, as a "aid" to couples who have difficulty conceiving, then it logically follows that the slot of "father" is open when used for two women also.  *shudders* Logic is cold and heartless, and thus, when based on false premises, leads to the horrors of history.  Well does the Church say that sex is good only within its proper place, the married couple, one man and one woman.  For with each digression from that norm, we have seen unintended horror, with contraception leading to abortion and homosexuality, and artificial insemination aiding in the destruction of the family.</p>  <font size="-2"> [1] Liptak, Adam.  "California Ruling Expands Same-Sex Parental Right" New York Times (online).  2005-08-23 http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/23/national/23gay.html?ex=1282449600&en=53ca9ebfd7af347a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss </font>

[[!tag  morality-religion]]
[[!tag  politics-law]]