[[!meta  title="20050614-0940"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-06-14 14:40:00"]]
<p>The bias is subtle in a current New York Times article talking
about the morality of treating children with severe birth defects.[^20050614-1]
It starts off okay, talking about how one doctor advocated treating
them and another did not, and society gradually took the choice out
of the doctors' hands in favor of treating everyone.  But then it
goes on to find two patients who "wish [they'd] never been born."[^20050614-2]
And then it continues to correlate the meningomyelocele cases the
rest of the article had been talking about to infants with very low
birth weights.  While admitting that we can now keep such children
alive, it highlights the problems some (many?) such children will
have later in life.  And ends by asking if we should be treating
such children at all.</p>

<p>The problem here is that this is consistently looking at the issue
from a quality of life perspective.  That is fundamentally wrong.
The Church teaches us that even the most handicapped life is worthy
of full respect as life, and is worth living.  God has seen fit
to give life to these babies, it is not for us to decide that they
should die, and to deny them basic treatment is to commit murder.
Perhaps they will never have a "normal" life, but perhaps the next
Beethoven is among them.  Or perhaps they will bring a smile to
one parents face with the love they can give.  Either would be a
reason enough to have lived.  And certainly their example will make
us all appreciate more the gifts we have.</p>

[^20050614-1] Mr Barron H. Lerner.  "Playing God With Birth Defects in the Nursery" [The New York Times](http://www.nytimes.com) Last Viewed 2016-05-02.  <http://www.nytimes.com/2005/06/14/health/policy/14essa.html?ex=1276401600&en=4b3526a5f99ec105&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss>

[^20050614-2] Ibid.

[[!tag science]]
