---

title: 20050307-1538
date: 2005-03-07 20:38:00
layout: rut
---

<p> I am rather surprised to note that I apparently did
<em>not</em> make significant note of Rebecca Hagelin's "<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/rebeccahagelin/rh20050225.shtml">Jailhouse
Middle School</a>."  I certainly read it, and it certainly doesn't
come as much surprise, but rather just an unneeded confirmation
of what I know goes on.  Perhaps that's why I didn't comment
on it.  It certainly isn't exactly "safe" for me to do so,
as a guy, I'm not allowed to comment on girls, how they act
or what they wear.  Unless I am complimenting them of course.
See <a href="./view.php?date=20050307-1448">my previous post
today</a> for a little more on this theme.  Anyway, while
I am skating on thin ice, I am going to go ahead and crash
on through.  Ms. Hagelin's (I am really not sure, is she a
Mrs or not? I hope so, she has children.) more recent article, "<a href="http://www.townhall.com/columnists/rebeccahagelin/rh20050304.shtml">Parents:
it's time to step up</a>," improves on the original.  It introduces
the theme of parental responsibility!  The idea that parents should
<em>parent</em>.  Wow!  What an original concept!</p>

<blockquote><p>The issues are many - far too many to focus on in
one column - so I want to focus on just one: How do so many other
little girls end up looking like sex objects?</p>

<p>How? Because their parents let them. And because many of the
schools have given up - administrators are just too tired, or too
lazy, or too liberal to care anymore.  Moms and dads, administrators
and teachers, it's our fault if America's little girls look like
a tramps.</p>

<p>Face the facts: Most 12 - 16 year olds don't have access to a
lot of cash - unless, of course, their parents give it to them.
And, last I heard, if you're below the age of 16 you simply can't
hop in a car and drive yourself to the local mall.  Nope, it's not
the kids' money that is being spent, it's the parents' money. And
it's usually the mom that happily drives the little darlings to
the mall for a fun day of shopping.  Face it: Little girls dress
according to what their mommies allow.</p>

<p>I thought mothers were supposed to protect their daughters,
to teach them to value themselves and their bodies. What chance
does a little girl stand of keeping her childhood or innocence
intact when it's mommy that's driving her to the store and paying
for the thongs, the itty-bitty skirts, the hipster jeans and the
plunging necklines?</p>

<p>And when did fathers start letting their precious little girls
dress like "ladies of the night"?</p></blockquote>

