## Family Inseparable

### Chapter 10

By: Luke Schierer

- - -

Dumbledore entered his office after the staff meeting.  He wasn't sure
which was worse, the dressing down Minerva had given him, or the cold,
sneering anger from Severus as he realised that the last link to Lilly was
missing.  It was Filius Flitwick who had given what was in retrospect the
obvious solution.  The sensors in his office said that Harry was alive,
so an owl should be able to find him.  If a touch-activated portkey was
enclosed in the letter, Harry could be returned to Dumbledore's office
without any fuss, and without knowing where he was.  Once Harry was safe,
Dumbledore as Chief Warlock could obliviate any muggles who happened
to be affected.  Best yet, despite their anger at him, Dumbledore knew
that at the very least, the staff he had assembled could be trusted to
keep the news secret.

- - - 
A few days later an owl arrived for Ginny with the expected reply
from her grandmum.  Ginny took it upstairs to her room to read with Harry.

> Dear Ginny and Harry, 
> 
> I applaud your generosity in helping your brother achieve his educational 
goals.  Since your goals are noble, I will support you in reassuring 
Charles that the money you gave him is honestly come by. You may, when you 
write him, state that I know where the money came from, that I can confirm 
that it is yours to give in this manner, and further that he may accept it 
without fear or reservation.
> 
> You need to consider how and when you will allow your family into
this part of your life. You are just starting to experience the problems
that keeping this secret will continue to cause. I cannot guarantee,
even with my support, that Charles will accept an evasive answer. He
may continue to press you to come clean.  
> 
> Love, 
> 
> Grandmum Prewett

While this response helped Ginny to approach her letter to Charlie
without the panic she had experienced on first seeing his questions, it
left plenty of room for worry.  Harry comforted her as best he could.
Part of him wanted to tell her parents, while another part continued
to feel that they should wait until the family was all together again.
Ginny's letter to Charlie leaned heavily on her grandmum's support,
while otherwise entirely dodging the question.  Errol took so long on
each delivery, that they could not expect a reply until after Charlie
got back from his trip.

- - - 

[[Previous|Chapter09]] 
[[Next|Chapter11]]

