## Family Inseparable

### Author's notes

#### Dumbledore

Musings of Apathy, in writing the original version of this story, envisions Dumbledore as (my words) misguided, and perhaps ruthless, but not evil.[^20180702-2]  As I work with this story, he might become a little darker than I think Musings of Apathy originally intended.  One of the things that really struck me as I started to really think about the Harry Potter books (as opposed to just enjoying them as stories), is just how valid some of the common fanfiction criticisms of Dumbledore are.  In no particular order:

* Harry's scar as a horocrux:
  * [Saving the Saviour](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11833745/14/Saving-the-Saviour) talks about how Dumbledore didn't have Harry examined at all by a Healer after that fateful Halloween night.  Could the soul fragment Riddle left have been detected?  Could something have been done about it? 
  * I forget where I read it, but one of the stories I read where Ginny retains some of Riddle's knowledge after the diary has her challenging the idea that Harry is a horocrux at all.  A horocrux is supposedly made intentionally via a ritual that not only embeds the fragment in an object, but protects that object from harm.  Hence only a few things, like fiendfyre or basilisk venom can destroy one.  Recall that Kreacher, despite a House Elf's powerful magic, could not do so.  Riddle could not have completed the ritual, whatever it is, when Harry survived.  Even if Riddle had _started_ the ritual, it would have been started with some other object in mind.  Thus the soul fragment in Harry should be less firmly fixed than in a true horocrux.  It should be something more akin to possession, and thus more expellable or removable. How is it that Dumbledore doesn't even _try_ to find other ways to handle this fragment besides having Harry hit by the killing curse?
  * More or less a follow up to the previous point, but further consider.  Dumbledore states that he did not know that Harry would survive.  Dumbledore _hoped_ that Harry would.  Dumbledore, by his own admission, knows that Harry will be willing to sacrifice himself.  The reason implied is that Dumbledore is well aware of Harry's heroic virtue.  But when you consider how much Dumbledore hid from Harry, how calculated the final revelation is, I think there is more to it.  Dumbledore is not leaving anything to chance - I agree with fanfiction authors who think that Dumbledore has, in the choices he has made regarding Harry's upbringing, purposefully worked to shape Harry into someone who will make that choice.  This does not negate Harry's virtue; Dumbledore is building on Harry's nature, not creating it out of whole cloth.  Honestly, if Dumbledore were as calculating about subjecting Harry to abuse as some authors would have him, then he took an incredibly reckless chance.  Dumbledore, knows how similar Harry's situation is to Riddle's childhood.  I think that this plan is something that Dumbledore came to over time, not something he intended from the beginning.  
* Dumbledore does not seem to know about the horocruxes until he is presented with the diary.  He knew Riddle had survived the Halloween encounter with Harry, but apparently did nothing to investigate this.
* Dumbledore placed Mrs. Figg to watch Harry.  She knows she has to be unpleasant to him to retain access to him and thus fulfill her mission.  Surely this was reported to Dumbledore over the years.  He presumably did not believe her, possibly because she is a squib, and he has some of the pure-blood's unconscious prejudices against them.  Alternately, while he does believe her, he is risks both Harry turning evil and Harry's health, because he views the odds that Harry will be killed by a Death Eater and/or a returned Riddle that probable.  There _must_ have been some middle ground.  Between Dumbledore's civil authority on the Wizengamot, and his experience with and control over magic, he could have dome _something_ to intervene in Harry's treatment. 

[^20180702-2]: <https://musings-of-apathy.fanficauthors.net/Family_Inseparable/Chapter_9/reviews/5/#comments> Last viewed 2018-07-02.  

#### The Wards around Privet Drive

Musings of Apathy, in writing the original version of this story, speculates that the wards either can and have collapsed without the monitors showing it, or that they never worked.[^20180702-3]  I think, if we are going to preserve Dumbledore, I have to modify this theory.  I suspect that the wards did establish, and did work.  Harry, as of Chapter 9, is still afraid of being sent back to Privet Drive.  He is still thinking of the Burrow as _Ginny's home_ and not yet as _his home_, and has only been gone for a couple of months, less than he will later be gone as part of each school year.  Thus the wards would remain standing.  If I succeed in going anywhere with this attempt the wards will fail when Harry and Ginny come clean to her parents, and Harry starts to feel secure in his new life.  At that point, his view of home will shift, and, because he (at that point) no longer views Privet Drive as home, the wards will suddenly fail.  

[^20180702-3]: <https://musings-of-apathy.fanficauthors.net/Family_Inseparable/Chapter_5/reviews/2/#comments> Last viewed 2018-07-02.
