[[!meta  title="20050126-1504"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-01-26 19:04:00"]]
I've more or less been slowly writing this all day today,
though the size of it does not reflect that.  *shrugs*
Ah-well.

**news**

There is a man in
Florida who has some incredible guts, whatever his other faults.
[This story](http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/features/1120/1-26-2005/20050126053003_40.html) talks about a man who full-page newspaper ad in an
attempt to contact his wife and save his Marriage.  Whatever
his faults, I think it must have taken great courage to use so
public a method to reach her.  I hope things work out.

In Delaware, a "life" sentence now means 45 years.[^20050126-1]  Lovely.  People argue
against the death penalty saying that in the modern era, it is
possible to keep society safe without it.  I tend to agree, but
things like this make me wonder if that is true.

The BBC [reports](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/in_depth/4208479.stm)
that birth rates are falling world wide.  The tone of the article
seems to oscillate between sorrow that they are not falling faster
and worry that they are falling.  How confused a world we live in,
when the fact that we can't sustain population levels isn't a cause
for concern, a wake-up call that something is wrong with society.
Our faith tells us that we are called to "multiply", I do not
think God intended that to mean "by fractions".  At some point
we are going to have to realize that motherhood is important,
and that having and raising children is the most important, most
meaningful thing that a couple will, or could, ever do.  I don't
know how to argue this one effectively.  I know that it is true,
but how to seriously tell a girl that you don't think a career
outside the home is the best course she can take, the best she
can aspire to?  For all its truth, how do you make that truth
shine through?

**gaim**

I hate it when users get ideas about how easy something is to implement.
I hate it even more when they think they can dictate priorities.
Why can people not grasp that in an open source project, only the
developers' priorities matter?

[^20050126-1]: <http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/1-26-2005/20050126030014_03.html> 

[[!tag  morality-religion]]
[[!tag  pidgin]]
[[!tag  politics-law]]
