## Dealing With Climate Change

If there is anything history _does_ tell us about the world's climate, it is
that it is a highly dynamic thing that *will* change.  Society's debate is not
*really* about *if* the climate is changing, but rather about 1) how fast it is
changing 2) how much its change will impact us and 3) how much of its change we
have caused.  Sure, there are plenty of "climate change deniers" out there, but
if you really pay attention to them, what they really attack is the idea of
*anthropomorphic* climate change.  Most of them neither confirm nor deny that
other types of climate change might be happening.  Nor are their opponents
blameless.  Those who talk most vociferously about climate change will
immediately become deniers if you attempt to provide any evidence that there is
any *non-human* cause for it to do so.  Both sides tend to have a laser focus on
human influences.  

I am not going to deny that humanity has impacted the climate.  The idea that
the industrial era with the massive amounts of coal burning that blackened
cities and blighted health for decades would have *no* impact is ludicrous.  I
will however challenge that we are, could possibly be, solely responsible for
it.  And since most people arguing for climate change's reality deny the
possibility of any other cause, I will question their integrity, and thus the
reliability of their assertions.  

But note I said there are three real questions.  A few people out there seem to
realize that.  I end to post quotes from them.  There are real questions about
*how much* and *how fast* the climate is changing (which are really the same
question, since "how much only makes sense in terms of a fixed "how long," and a
changed "how fast" and "how long" will produce any given amount you care to
solve for).  I also tend to think, as I said above, we are ignoring other
possible causes of the change we do/have see/seen, and that these alternatives
should be better explored and in some cases are more persuasive than the idea of
anthropomorphic change.  This is particularly true since other possible causes
tend to have fixed and/or cyclical impact, versus the runaway disaster scenarios
that the anthropomorphic crowd fixate on.

Still, if the climate changes noticeably at all, some areas of the world will
(statistically speaking) probably benefit, and others will suffer.  What will
the balance of cost and benefit be?  Both in terms of the wonder and beauty of
the world we live in, and in more pragmatic terms in its ability to support and
sustain us?  If we are impacted, even if we somehow caused none of it, we still
have to figure out how to deal with it.  Similarly, even if we cause very little
of it, we should still be responsible in our use of the world and its resources,
and not wasteful or careless.  The industrial age is excusable only to the
extent that we, as a society, were truly ignorant of both our impact on our
world and on ways to avoid having that impact without unacceptable cost.

So many people seem to treat humanity as a disease.  I refuse to do so.  The
world is for us, it is not ours, but it is ours to manage and yes use.  And so a
"solution" to climate change that basically boils down to "we should not care
about our standard of living, lets just do whatever it takes to preserve the
world as if, without us, it would never change" is unacceptable.  The headline
on an article I read about the ways that housing can be adapted to help the
United States meet the goals set by the Paris Agreement is an example of this.
The sub headline reads "Smaller housing, denser neighborhoods, and heat pumps are
key."[^20200724-1] 

Now I have no problem with the latter part of that.  If heat pumps will help us
meet our international agreements in ways that gas or oil heat will not, fine.
We can try to incentivize people to move to heat pumps.  More efficient heating
should also be less expensive heating, so it should be a societal win all the
way around.  If it is not less expensive, well, there are ways we as a society
can offset that if we, as a society, judge the goal sufficiently important. 

It is the first part of that sub headline that troubles me.  The editor (or
whoever came up with the headline) is revealing an anti-human bias.  Sure, the
tendency towards over-sized houses is rather ridiculous, but the benefits of less
dense housing on a family's standard of living is equally hard to deny.  I have
heard lots of single people talk about the joys of city life.  Most parents talk
about the desire for a yard or other open spaces for their kids to play in.
Everyone wants the lower crime rates that tend to come with less dense housing.
And while having a family of three in a six bedroom house, or even a four
bedroom house where each room is the size of some entire apartments is
excessive, some families do in fact need those five and six bedroom homes.
Cities might be ideal for small families or busy singles; suburbs and small
towns allow for a variety of differently sized homes for differently sized
families (I have heard from more than one co-worker that it is difficult to find
housing for your larger families in reasonable distances from Amazon's Seattle
headquarters). 

The article itself is not nearly so problematic.  It talks about retrofitting
houses to be more energy efficient.  This is a onetime cost that will bring long
term savings for both heating and cooling.  Again, if we want to prioritize
these kinds of goals as society, we *could* find ways to help families meet
these one time challenges.  It talks about different ways of heating houses (see
above), and while it talks about multi-family versus single family housing, and
housing size, the article, unlike the headline, makes no real recommendations, it
is presenting the facts as discovered by the researchers.  

Some things are all about the science.  Policy decisions however, need to also
include your best guess on the societal impact.  Sociology might one day be a
science, but only when we are willing to treat natural law as normative, and not
as optional.  Until then, sociology is essentially an opinion on which premises
we should pay attention to. 

[^20200724-1]: Mr. John Timmer. "[How to change US housing to hit Paris Agreement
goals](https://arstechnica.com/science/2020/07/how-to-change-us-housing-to-hit-paris-agreement-goals/)"
[Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/) Published 2020-07-24.  Last Viewed
2020-07-24. 
