[[!meta  title="20050519-1704"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-05-19 22:04:00"]]
<p>Eric Warmenhoven is apparently annoyed by the oft-repeated
statement that "everything happens for a reason."[1] People who
state this typically mean that God's plans are often not evident
to human perception, and that time will show the good that will
come of some event.  This represents a crucial mistake.</p>

<p>Eric is absolutely right, the statement as it stands, is a
horrid misunderstanding of cause and effect.  Even if you properly
take into account the concept of free will, a given event happened
<em>because</em> of some past event.  That is to say, it was caused
by that past event or choice.  The actual teaching is that God
will bring good out of everything, even out of evil.  This is only
superficially the same as the preceding, erroneous, statement.</p>

<p>In bringing good out of evil, God is not, usually, side-stepping
causality (though He can).  Joan of Arc's preservation of France
was not miraculous (well, perhaps it was, but it was not miraculous
in the sense that it happened after the need for it).  Rather, all
that is necessary is to realize that from her choices and actions,
God inspired certainly, but still rooted in causality, we later
came to a situation where Catholic France would not be brought down
when England betrayed the Faith in the Protestant Reformation.
Again, the two statements, even with this example, remain very
very similar.  Someone in between St. Joan and the Reformation
would know the <em>reason</em> for France's freedom: St. Joan acted.
They would not however know the <em>purpose</em> for her actions.
Specifically, they could guess <em>her</em> purposes for acting,
but not <em>God's</em> for inspiring and aiding her actions.  It is
the <em>purpose</em> that will come clear with time, the purpose
for which God did allow it, or the purpose for which He will use
it, or both.  <em>It</em> will be used as a cause, and the things
<em>it will cause</em> remain unknown.</p>

<p>In some sense, this really is the same as saying the reason is
unknown, but only if you think, as Calvin taught, that everything
is predestined.  It is not.  You did not get sick <em>because</em>
you needed to suffer.  Adam did not sin <em>because</em> Jesus
would save us.  Rather, Jesus saved us because Adam sinned.  Adam is
the reason, or cause, of Jesus' coming, Jesus is not the reason,
or cause, of Adam's sin.  Now everything is as clear as mud. <font size="+2">&#x263a;</font></p>

[1] http://www.warmenhoven.org/blog/7

[[!tag  uncategorized]]