[[!meta  title="20050304-1051"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-03-04 15:51:00"]]
<p> The WTO now apparently gets to tell <em>us</em> what
industries we can and cannot subsidize.  Don't get me
wrong, I'm not in favor of farm subsidies at all, but "<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4317235.stm">US must act
'quickly' on cotton</a>" makes my blood boil.  It surely is wonderful
to live a world where an organization accountable to no one and
nothing gets to decide our laws.  Even in the days of widespread
monarchy, the king was responsible to God, and when he was not,
as with the Romans, look where you ended up.  Do we want to go down
that road? I do not <em>think</em> so.  We seriously need to start
resisting this move towards globalization.  It stands in opposition
to the Catholic principle of subsidiarity, concentrating power and
decision-making into the hands of the unaccountable few rather than
localizing it to levels where it is under the control and influence
of the people who's lives the laws will decide.  The United Nations,
the World Trade Organization, the World Bank, the World Court, all
of these need to go.  And the LOST treaty creating a NGO, with the
power to tax of all things, to cripple the trade of any country that
defies it, needs to be stopped.  It <strong><em>must not be allowed
to happen</em></strong>.  We are going downhill fast here, with
the spread of secularization, paganism, and, with them, corruption
and death.  It is no surprise that the United Nations "peace keepers"
are the center of so much scandal; what else do you expect to come
from a culture that has greater regard for you as a sheep than you
as a thinking sovereign person?  "Might makes right" in history and
politics, as Fr. Lyle used to say, and these soldiers have the might,
without the moral framework to hold them back.  Expect to see more
of this.  Expect to see LOST used to redistribute our wealth to the
pockets of corrupt dictators in 3rd world countries, supposedly to
fund improvements, development, and aid, but with the same sort of
corruption that the Oil for Food program had.</p>

[[!tag  uncategorized]]