[[!meta  title="20050608-1129"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-06-08 16:29:00"]]
<p>School vouchers seem like a good idea at first.  Why not get our
kids out of badly performing public schools?  Why not use the money
on schools that can actually teach them?  It provides accountability
(in the form of lower budgets) to the schools, and it helps the
children to get the education they so desperately need.  I dislike,
fear, the idea though.  The Florida Supreme Court is now looking at
a Florida bill that represents the first statewide school voucher
program.[1] Opponents charge that this bill causes public money
to be spent on religious education.  And in many senses, they are
absolutely right.  Because even if you cause the school to track
where each dollar goes, spending this money on science and math
frees up other funds for religion, and so the argument can be made
that it is in essence funding religion.  This may or may not win,
it really does not matter.</p>

<p>What concerns me is that the use of public funds, in any way
or form, opens the door to regulation.  Just as many charities
are now regulated, needing to conform to costly health laws that
a restaurants would need to for example, so too our schools will
be increasingly exposed to education laws.  And this is not good,
because it will expose them to the type of science standards
that have put evolution debates in the court systems time and
time again.  It will expose them to history standards that can be
used to push a secular interpretation of history.  It will expose
them to requirements for sex ed, and a host of other regulations.
Because as long as you take government dollars, you are subject to
their rules on how you spend them.</p>

[1] http://news.findlaw.com/ap/o/632/06-08-2005/f637001aa85826c9.html

[[!tag  uncategorized]]