[[!meta  title="I knew it"]]
[[!meta  date="2008-01-22 16:18:18"]]
Yesterday I spent my work day converting a number of xen virtual servers into physical servers.  There has got to be a better way than what I did, but I do not know of a rescue environment that has rsync installed (to my surprise, I tried several with no luck), and I did not have a usb stick or similar to install an OS on.  

That is neither here nor there though.  While I was converting, I came across a number of small but indicative things that lead me to believe that the administrators employed by the customer whose servers I was converting are in fact incredibly incompetent.  Gah, that was a bad overly clauseful sentence.  

Anyway, while nothing I found makes things certain, it was, as I said, certainly indicative.  Today, I wake up, and they are complaining that files are missing from a vhost that I did not touch.  At all.  Sure enough, the file system is mounted but the files themselves are not there.  

Looking in history, I cannot prove that they ran the rm -rf themselves.  The alternative is that they were hacked.  Either way, it feels like a sort of bitter "I told you so" moment, because yesterday I spent a few minutes complaining to Dan about the state of the converted machines, and suggesting he contact the customer about it.  I do not think the customer realizes how incompetent his administrators are, nor that he has enough technical skills to interview a system administrator adequately.  As a good business partner, I personally feel we owe it to this customer to have given him a heads up.  And Dan might have done so for all I know.

Still, it is deeply ironic that we have had a catastrophe *the very night after I warn Dan that they are asking for one.*

bah.

[[!tag  personal]]
[[!tag  technical]]