---

title: 20050510-1620
date: 2005-05-10 21:20:00
layout: rut
---

<p>When I first heard that President Bush had proposed an income
indexed Social Security benefit, I knew that his "allies," the
republican journalists, were going to savage him.  And at least
some of them have.[1] I, on the other hand, thought it brilliant,
and George Will seems to agree.[2]</p>

<p>First of all, it is nearly unattackable.  This is doing exactly
what the indexed income taxes, so loved by the democrats, does,
it hurts the rich.  Oh, it cuts into middle class benefits also,
an aspect I rather dislike, as it will impact me, and it is
particularly bad since we in the middle class pay the bulk of the
taxes to begin with, but for tax purposes we are rich, so why not
for Social Security?  Oh, if only the liberals could be effectively
called on this one&#x2026;</p>

<p>Secondly, as Mr. Will points out, as our most influential
citizens realize they do not need, and do not benefit from,
Social Security, there will begin to be some incentive to disband
it entirely, eliminating one program the federal government has
no place administering.  On the other hand, there will continue
to be some incentive to expand it to "help" the richer citizens,
but that always exists, and we have resisted it fairly effectively
in welfare.</p>

<p>All of which demonstrates why the democrats are so opposed
to it, they cannot bear to see this leash around our collective
necks loosened.  They would have us dependent on the government for
everything, so that they can use the threat of cut benefits to enact
whatever social policies they see fit to propose.  They would leave
us trapped in a fairly classic trap between a carrot and a whip.</p>

[1] http://www.townhall.com/columnists/alanreynolds/ar20050505.shtml
[2] http://www.townhall.com/columnists/georgewill/gw20050508.shtml

