---

title: 20050510-1041
date: 2005-05-10 15:41:00
tags:
  - ", "politics-law
layout: rut
---

<p>I really do not know where to start with <a href="http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20050509-4886.html">this</a>
Ars article.  It is rightly concerned with so much, it is quite
obviously biased and wrong about almost as much.</p>

<p>The article starts off more or less correctly, it is a surprise
that the REAL ID Act is getting next to no coverage.  And it is
obvious that it has been attached to this military spending bill
because there is no way the Congress, either house, could pass it
without backlash (how big a backlash is another question, but there
would be backlash) otherwise.  For this reason, Mr. Bruce Schneier <a href="http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/05/real_id.html">says</a>
that the REAL ID Act is a done deal, that there is no way it will
fail.</p>

<p>As to the national id aspect of the bill, Mr. Schneier's web log
entry is rather more informative, accurate, and meaningful than Ars'
is.  Either way, it is a significant concern.  You <em>do not</em>
want this bill to pass if you value your privacy <em>at all</em>.
Or, at least, not if you value your privacy and your freedom more
than you value your sheep-like security (yes, you can see <em>my</em>
bias here).  Mrs. Michelle Malkin is likely in favor of this bill,
she will see the security concerns without really noting that the
proposed solution is not an adequate fix.  Others significantly
upset about illegal immigration will also likely support this,
as they will see its denial of licenses to illegal immigrants.
However well or poorly Ars and Mr. Schneier argue on this aspect
however, I think they have missed stating the vital point.
The argument against this aspect of the bill, the immigration
aspect, is the same as that against gun control.  Illegal aliens
will still drive, they just will not have licenses, and thus will
not have even the minimal testing that the various departments of
motor vehicles offer.  To what extent is that already the case?
It is hard to say, but it must be less when you can know someone
with a license than when every illegal immigrant lacks one.</p>

<p>Moving on, we get to judicial review.  I find it really curious
that Ars can quote the relevant section of the Constitution
and yet still find that judicial review is yet part of the
Constitution.  If it is, I do not see it.  As best I remember
from my history and government courses, judicial review started
with <em>Marbury v. Madison</em>, when it first struck down a bill
as unconstitutional.  This ability itself is not enumerated in the
Constitution, but was not challenged at the time, by the men who had
written the Constitution, so it may be assumed that they consented
to it as being compatible.  At least, if they did challenge it,
such challenge has not lasted to my ears.</p>

<p>Living as they did in a time when tyranny was primarily
imposed by the executive, the governors of the separate colonies
disbanding the legislatures, overriding the courts, interfering
with them, it is not surprising that rather fewer checks were
put on the Courts by our founding fathers than on the executive.
Interestingly though, argument <em>has</em> been passed down to
us of several early presidents, including Madison, widely held
to be the primary author of the Constitution (unlike Jefferson,
author of the Declaration, who was not even involved directly),
criticizing Congress for passing bills beyond their Constitutional
authority, and vetoing said bills.  An example being a pension for
widows of military officers.  If Congress had not the authority to
pass a pension for the widows of military officers, where comes
the authority for it to pension for us all (Social Security)?
Now likely, the Federal pension plans, being as they are passed as
part of the compensation due to Federal employees are different, and
under such, Congress may then have been able to pass that pension
plan, but it did so as an act of humanity, not under its ability
to pass laws necessary (I.E. paying government employees) to the
exercise of the Government's function.  Returning to my point here,
our founding fathers feared many forms of tyranny, they saw the threat
of democracy, they saw the abuse of the executive.  I think however
that they missed the possibly tyranny of the oligarchy, the tyranny
that the unchecked judicial power could, and now is, making.</p>

<p>Ars certainly misses this possibility.  Concerned that the
separation of Church and State, itself not "constitutionally
mandated" but rather an erroneous decision of the Warren Court that
has been imposed on us by the courts since, might be eroded, Ars is
up in arms over the possibility that Congress might use the Article
3 Section 2 clause 2 powers to restrict the scope of the courts.</p>

<p>In part, they are rightly concerned.  Such a restriction
might now serve good ends, it could be used to limit the damage
to society by the decisions of Massachusetts and similar states.
It could be used to prevent the ACLU and other rabidly anti-Christian
organizations from further erasing our Christian heritage from the
collective consciousness.  These would be good acts, good ends at
least, possibly, but debatably, good means to them.  It could also,
at some point in the future, be used quite the reverse, it could be
used to restrict the Courts from enforcing the freedom of religion,
for example.  It is a two edged sword, quite capable of cutting
both ways, just as the filibuster is (which is why the democrats
and republicans have switched sides on the filibuster recently,
it is now the democrats wielding the sword, not the republicans).
Still, I think that in this case, like in many others, that the
Article 3 Section 2 clause 2 powers are simply a tool, a tool that,
unlike for example nuclear weapons, have no inherent good or evil
content, they are more like a hammer, which can be used for good
and evil, so it is the intent of the person, the act for which it
is used, that determines the morality of the use (again, unlike
nuclear arms, which cannot be legitimately used (except perhaps as
a threat? but a threat implies that they might be, and they must
not be&#x2026;messy question)).</p>

