---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-01-27 14:51:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<strong>news</strong><br  /> David Limbaugh <a href="http://www.davidlimbaugh.com/mt/archives/2005/01/no_silly_ideas.html">reports</a>
on one example of the consequences of the No Child Left Behind Act.
While I laud Bush and Congress for acting to fix the oh so obvious
failure of the public school system to educate, their action was
in this case misguided.  Subsidiarity teaches us that governance
moved away from the people is not right, that our society should be
governed at the lowest level capable of handling a given problem.
No Child Left Behind flies in the face of this principle, and here
we see the results: it is predictably being used to further stifle
excellence, but, now, parents challenging this trend must go to
federal court, not to a local school board that they can more
easily control.<br  /><br  />

In their unending quest to blur the distinction
between Man and animal, scientists are experimenting
with chimeras, as reported by National Geographic <a href="http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2005/01/0125_050125_chimeras.html">here</a>.
Naturally there is some legit research to be done in this area.
Some things we already do to save lives, like replacing heart valves
with those from cows or pigs.  But this article rightly questions
how far is too far. <br  /><br  />

Findlaw <a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/other/1110/1-26-2005/20050126084508_10.html">reports</a>
on a pair of school kids now up on felony
charges.  For what you ask?  They drew threatening
stick figures.  Yes.  Stick Figures.  Local6.com <a href="http://www.local6.com/news/4130302/detail.html">provides
additional detail</a>, though I do not know how long it will be up.
Apparently these stick figures were sufficient to cause "extreme
fear" in another 10 year old.  Certainly this could have been
handled in some other fashion... <br  /><br  />

<hr  /><br  />

In other, went to Pub Quiz at the 4Ps last night, and surprise
surprise, Jenn came. :-) We had a very good time.  I haven't gotten
to see Jenn in forever, so it was awesome.  PVI wrestled Gonzaga
yesterday, Michael lost his varsity match, won his exhibition match.
I think he could have defeated the varsity kid, but he gets so
discouraged when the other guy has a strong ability to break you
down.  I know how that is, it is very hard to continually work up,
so I do not, cannot, fault him for having lost; he tried hard the
whole match.

