---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-03-08 15:14:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p> FindLaw reports in "<a href="http://news.findlaw.com/ap_stories/a/w/1153/3-7-2005/20050307161506_13.html">Senate
Defeats Minimum Wage Increase</a>" that the Senate has resisted
efforts to increase the minimum wage.  I see this as good news.
My logic for this is fairly simple.  If I am paying Adam minimum
wage, and Bob ten cents more than that, and minimum wage is raised
ten cents, I will increase Adam's pay, but not Bob's.  This means I
now have more people making minimum wage.  Additionally, I really
cannot (or in some cases simply will not) allow my profit margin
to decrease; if I have enough people making minimum wage, that ten
cent increase might even have erased most of my profit.  So I am now
going to raise prices.  And this will have an effect on companies
that purchase my product, they will raise prices also.  It will also
have an impact on consumers.  They will be able to afford less of my
product, and less of the products of the companies who depend on me.
So <em>everyone</em> pays for the raised minimum wage with less
buying power.  Not only that, but now we have more people making
minimum wage.  The minimum wage then is a balancing act.  Trying to
keep it high enough to prevent abuse of employees, but raising it
infrequently enough so as to prevent it from being a significant
source of inflation.  Ideally of course we would not have a minimum
wage, or at least not a meaningful one.  Given sufficient ability to
unionize, and sufficient Independence to be able to go to another
job, employees can demand a just wage.  But even this is less than
ideal, ideally <em>employers</em> are also acting on sound moral
principles, and will be offering just compensation to begin with.
I am, however, more than aware that this is not an ideal world,
and so I accept the existence of a minimum wage, I just hesitate
to see it raised significantly or frequently (it has currently been
9 years since the last raise).</p>

<p><strong><big>Update: 20050308-1444</big></strong> David Limbaugh feels somewhat more stongly on this issue than I do in his blog post, "<a href="http://www.davidlimbaugh.com/mt/archives/2005/03/minimum_wage_in.html">Minimum Wage Insanity</a>."</p>

