[[!meta title="HP Stories with Responsible Adults"]]

So often children's literature is possible because the adults in those stories
are incompetent.  Sometimes they are well-meaning, sometimes they are not,
sometimes they are *trying* and failing, other times they are effectively
negligent.  Sometimes they are simply effectively absent.  Irregardless, the
story is only possible because children are doing things that adults should
have taken care of.  The Harry Potter series is no exception, though it differs
from many in that it features adults in *all* of these categories.  

This is a collection of fan fiction stories that are note-worthy primarily
because they showcase some aspect of adults being … adults. 

=_[Lessons Learned](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/12399401)_=
    * Author: The Mother Rose
    * Published: 2017-03-10.
    * Comments: This relatively short one-shot features a neighbour of the
      [[Dursleys|Notes/Dursleys]] looking back and explaining to a younger
      relative how it is that he, and the rest of the neighbourhood, came to
      overlook [[Harry|Notes/Harry]]'s living situation.  It then enters the
      Responsible Adult alternate universe by positing that people might have
      realised that Petunia was lying about [[Harry|Notes/Harry]]'s secondary
      schooling and treated him like a missing child.  This story is noteworthy
      because prior to reading this, despite the fact that I am, or ought to be
      (based on my own rants on the topic), fully aware of just how caste based
      English society can be, I had overlooked just how effective Petunia's lies
      would have been to that audience. 

=_[The Paths Diverge](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/7247199)_=
    * Author: Vaneria Potter
    * Published: 2011-08-03. Updated: 2019-01-23.
    * Comments: What would happen if someone saw [[Harry|Notes/Harry]] between
      when he was left in the basket outside the [[Dursleys|Notes/Dursleys]]
      and when Petunia found him the next morning?  While most people who stay
      in the magical world may not have an ounce of logic, not all *do* stay,
      and one woman without magic can do more that most magicals expect anyway. 

=_[Petrification Proliferation](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11265467)_=
    * Author: White Squirrel
    * Published: 2015-05-22. Updated: 2016-05-29.
    * Comments: In this story a [[basilisk|Notes/animals/basilisk]] is treated
      as a weapon of mass destruction.  There are mandatory procedures in place
      that are actually followed.  

=_[Tournament Woes](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/8837107)_=
    * Author: Bobmin356
    * Published: 2012-12-26
    * Comments: This could be posted in a Harry/Hannah section as well; though
      the story only briefly mentions the relationship, the
      [[Abbott|Notes/Families]] family are the primary movers in this story.  If
      the [[Dursleys|Notes/Dursleys]] had gone on vacation the summer before
      fourth year, [[Harry|Notes/Harry]] might well have had the freedom to meet
      all sorts of people…

=_[The Boy Who Never Knew](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/6681967)_=
    * Author: dunuelos
    * Published: 2011-01-24. Updated: 2011-02-02.
    * Comments: What if Vernon and Petunia *didn't* hide the letter, and thus
      Hagrid *wasn't* [[Harry|Harry_Potter/Notes/Harry]]'s first introduction to
      magic?  In this story, Tom the bar keep is that introduction, just as the
      Leaky Cauldron officially opens.  Hufflepuff Harry spends the year keeping
      his head down and isolated from the rest of the school, only to be
      suddenly attacked by [[Riddle|Harry_Potter/Notes/adults/Riddle]]'s wraith
      at the end of the year.  As a Hufflepuff, he has rather more of a support
      network than as a Gryffindor.  This really should have been developed at
      least a chapter or two further.  Some key things are left unanswered, but
      it is an intriguing start unfortunately marked complete.

=_[The Three Professors Visit No 4 PrivetDrive](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11934019)_=
    * Author: Priya Ashok
    * Published: 2016-05-07.
    * Comments: This one features an out of character
      [[Snape|Notes/adults/Snape]].  I am unsure how much of his speech patterns
      are an affectation of the role he is playing, and how much is the author's
      interpretation of the character.  If the former, it is brilliant, if the
      latter, it is a flaw.  It would require a second chapter were we see Snape
      talking to others to begin to figure out which is going on though.  What
      makes this one memorable is the back and forth between Snape and Petunia,
      with [[McGonagall|Notes/adults/McGonagall]]'s introspection interspersed.
      Petunia does a masterful job of *destroying*
      [[Dumbledore|notes/adults/Dumbledore]] and McGonagall, only to be equally
      *destroyed* by Snape.  Meanwhile McGonagall shows that underneath all that
      tarnish there really is some silver by realising that much of what is
      happening is deserved on all sides.  
