---

title: 20050520-0914
date: 2005-05-20 14:14:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

<p><i>The Hunchback of Notre-Dame</i> contains an interesting
section talking about how the printing press would (perhaps Victor
Hugo thinks "did"?) destroy the Faith.</p>

<blockquote>In the first place, it was a priestly thought.  It was
the affright of the priest in the presence of a new agent, the
printing press.  It was the terror and dazzled amazement of the men
of the sanctuary, in the presence of the luminous press of Gutenberg.
It was the pulpit and the manuscript taking the alarm at the printed
word: something similar to the stupor of a sparrow which should
behold the angel Legion unfold his six million wings.  It was the cry
of the prophet who already hears emancipated humanity roaring and
swarming; who beholds in the future, intelligence sapping faith,
opinion dethroning belief, the world shaking off Rome.  It was
the prognostication of the philosopher who sees human thought,
volatilized by the press, evaporating from the theocratic recipient.
It was the terror of the soldier who examines the brazen battering
ram, and says:--"The tower will crumble." It signified that one
power was about to succeed another power.  It meant, "The press
will kill the church."[1]  </blockquote>

<p>He then goes on talk about his other idea, that the press killed
architecture.  This one is rather better supported, and, though
tainted with his ideas on religion, is somewhat more valid.</p>

<p>But his idea that the printing press would or did kill the faith
is so ludicrous as to be very nearly amusing.  It is, incidentally,
the same opinion that I read about on the part of the authorities and
the doctors involved in Mary's apparitions in Lourdes.  Perhaps in
the 1800s it appeared that the faith was only for the uneducated?
I do not know.  All that I do know is that the faith has persevered
far longer than the ideas of those who wrote them have.  And I
do know that it is not a rejection of the faith that liberates,
but an embrace of it.  The false liberty of rejection leads to the
mental prison of materialism that Mr. Chesterton describes so aptly.
We are free to believe in physical laws as strict or as breakable
as we like, but the materialist is not free to believe in even the
smallest miracle for example.  I will take my reality of hope over
the dark and depressing views that have lead to the disaster we
are in now, thank you very much.</p>


[1] Project Gutenberg puts this at Book 5, Chapter II.  My printed
copy puts it at chapter 23.  The titles given to each are similar,
but not quite the same.  Either way, it is the second paragraph of
the chapter.  http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/etext01/hback10.txt

