---

title: "20050517-1138"
date: 2005-05-17 16:38:00
layout: rut
---

<p>The Washington Times is characterizing Pat Buchanan somewhat
differently than I have read him recently.  One of us (the
Washington Times or I) is, must be, wrong.[1] Neither of us is
necessarily correct, however.  In this case, I think this last
is true.  Perhaps this is hubris on my part, if so, so be it.
I have asserted that Mr. Buchanan is proposing and endorsing
run-away isolationism.  Considering political realities, which
I think Mr. Buchanan must be doing, I think I may have taken his
argument to an extreme that he might not object to, but would not,
in point of fact, attempt to implement.  He is quoted here saying
that he would allow in immigrants who are here to work, <em>and</em>
here to live.  It is the flood of migrant workers, migrant in the
sense that they are here to work, but intend to leave to live their
lives in their native country, that he would stop.  He thinks this
is necessary to preserve our cohesion as a country.</p>

<p>He is absolutely correct.  It <em>is</em> necessary that
people feel at home in the United States, that they feel that it
is <em>their</em> home, that they join our culture, reshape it
certainly, but learn from it also, if we are to remain one country.
It is necessary that the melting of separate cultures continue if we
are to end the problems of racism.  It is the black communities'
insistence on holding on to a <em>separate</em> identity that
proves the theory of the civil rights era: you cannot have "separate
but equal."</p>

<p>Further, he is absolutely correct when he says that the
conservative movement has fragmented.  It has fragmented worse
than his examples show.  You have people who call themselves
conservatives who favor government intervention if it means more
security.  You have people who call themselves conservatives who
would reduce the right to bear arms if it means less chance of
terrorism.  You have people who advocate federal intervention to
end computer viruses and spam, yet call themselves conservatives.
You have people who want economic reform without social reform,
yet they too are calling themselves conservatives.  You have deficit
spenders, who are conservative because they are for a strong defense
department, and "moral conservatives" who once alone would have been
called "conservative."  All these groups, all called "conservative,"
all under the republican umbrella, demonstrate why the Republicans
fragment under pressure, even pressure from a minority democratic
party.  Because each has a different agenda, and so each is willing
to jettison a different piece of the puzzle to further their special
cause.  Contrast this to the Democrats who are just as fragmented at
primary time, but yet know that the solution they all want is a more
powerful government and more powerful democratic party, and so they
unify again as each election ends.  Thus you see feminists advancing
homosexual causes, thus you see both helping the green activists.
This also holds true when you look at those who do not re-unify,
you see them not in the democratic party, but in the green party,
and the other third parties.</p>

<p>But he is wrong in thinking that this union is worth saving,
or can be saved.  We can, and should try, to save it for a time.
We can perhaps preserve it for generations to come, but if we are to
survive for long without being Balkanized to meaninglessness, the
union that will exist will be a union that we will not recognize,
though it may be one that our founding fathers would.  What will
survive will be the government that a moral people need to curb those
who transgress the common morality, one aimed at curbing exceptions,
not at suspecting all.  It will be a self-policed state, just as we
once where, where the pressure of society holds you in check far more
than the fear of the law.  One where certain acts are unthinkable,
and so, when they happen, the justice is swift and sure.  It may
be a less gentle society, but it will be <em>more</em> civilized
for that.  Perhaps it will be a republic, perhaps a representative
democracy such as we have now.  Perhaps it will be a more centralized
government, a monarchy or oligarchy.  Perhaps it will cover the
same territory, or perhaps we will have fragmented beyond repair.
Time will tell.  Perhaps it will come soon, perhaps there is yet
another two or three hundred years before it comes.  Perhaps we
have reached the lowest depths of depravity, but I think not.
The reaction will not come until we do, the reaction will not come
until good people are forced to admit they must act to preserve
themselves and their children in a world gone mad around them.</p>

[1] http://www.washtimes.com/national/20050517-122418-5719r.htm

