---

title: 20050214-1418
date: 2005-02-14 19:18:00
layout: rut
---

This is scary and exciting beyond belief.  "<a href="http://www.wired.com/news/medtech/0,1286,66579,00.html?tw=wn_tophead_1">Altered
HIV Attacks Mice Tumors</a>" talks about a research project in which
HIV was altered to attack cancer cells instead of immune cells.
It was apparently rather successful in mice.  They claim it isn't
really much of a risk because they "have completely removed 80
percent of the virus. So really it's just a carrier."  Obviously a
potential cure for cancer needs nothing else to be exciting really,
but this is especially so because they are building a cure from
a plague.  What a mind-boggling example of bringing good from evil!
It is scary though.  The claim is they can target "any protein on
the surface of a cell" and have "seen success with about a dozen
different molecules, including brain and other blood cells."
On one hand, this will make it particularly effective, it can
be customized for the various cancers, making it potentially
particularly effective, assuming there is a way to tell the
difference between the cancer cell and the normal cell from the
cell surface for any given type of cell.  On the other hand though,
the potential for biological weaponry of particular nastiness,
especially for those with a genocidal bent (Saddam Hussein, your
average PLA suicide bomber wishing to kill Jews, several instances
of this in Africa currently, the whole Bosnia/Serbia thing not long
ago..) is not particularly far under the surface here, now is it?
Just goes to show, technology is never in and of itself good or evil,
it all comes down to the use to which man puts it.

