---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-05-31 15:56:00"
tags:
  - politics-law
  - morality-religion
---
Lots and lots of non-news in my scan today.  I am starting
to think that I have once again exhausted my ability to be
significantly interested in national or world events.  Still,
a few things did catch my eye.  Why is it that people get this
idea that you must prioritize the world's problems and ignore
anything that is not at the top of that stack?  Just because
China and North Korea are worse than we are, is that reason to
ignore evidence of persecution of faith and Christianity here?
Some attacking Mr. David Limbaugh's book *Persecution* seem
to think so.[^1]  In the afore-referenced interview, Mr. Limbaugh
presents an interesting idea that I have no ability to evaluate:
that the systematic persecution of the Faith and of the Jewish
people in Germany, and in other societies, was presaged by the types
of miss-characterization that Christians suffer now.  Certainly Germany
started slow, but is this a fair charge to make?  I do not know.

Still, it is worth noting that we *are* slowly but surely eroding our
understanding of "Freedom of Religion."  From the suppression of displays of
faith in public, we now move to sheltering our children from religions that a
judge deems not "mainstream."[^2]  This is a ruling that I cannot but find
sympathy for.  The rise of Wiccans and others calling themselves witches is
disturbing.  It makes me wonder how much of the talk of the "Black Church" in
Mr. Neil Stephenson's "Baroque Cycle" is historical, something I
was and am not otherwise inclined to give him much credence in.
Still, as in the case of the New Mexico church that wanted to use
the hallucinogenic tea in their services, I cannot but find this
sort of suppression unacceptable.  No government official should
have the right to define what is and is not a religion, what does
and does not deserve First Amendment protection.  I am not sure how
cults should be treated, such bodies that mimic religion present
a thorny question for law.  I know, instinctively, however, that
this sort of action can only spell ill for the Church.

[^1]: [Mr. Stan Guthrie](http://www.stanguthrie.com/)  I seem to have thought
    linking to the person an adequate footnote back when I wrote this. Better
    citation needed. 

[^2]: [FindLaw](http://findlaw.com) <http://news.findlaw.com/ap/o/51/05-27-2005/9bfe0012b94196c6.html>

