[[!meta  title="20050511-1416"]]
[[!meta  date="2005-05-11 19:16:00"]]
<p>A while back,[1] I mentioned that Pat Buchanan is advocating a
return to isolationism.  One of my primary objections was that it
simply has not worked all that well in the past, we ended up fighting
World War I and, because of the disastrous treaty ending that war,
World War II.  Mr. Buchanan, as if he could hear my objections
(perhaps others expressed them as well?), has a new article[2]
asking how much of a "victory" World War II was.  He asks some very
good questions, but I think some of his premises are wrong.  While he
may be right that France and Britain drew Hitler into western Europe,
and that we joined the war to drive him out, I am certain that was
not the <em>right</em> reason, if it was our reason, to go to war
with Hitler.  The <em>right</em> reason to go to war with Hitler
was because he was unacceptably evil.  The <em>right</em> reason
was to end the Holocaust, to end his persecution of the Church,
and to end his reign of death and terror over the elderly, infirm,
and disabled.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, Mr. Buchanan's questions make <em>even more</em>
sense in this context than in his own.  Because while we <em>did</em>
stop Hitler (late, but at least we did), we turned half of Europe
over to Stalin and the Communists, who initiated a similar reign of
death and terror.  It makes me sympathize even more with Generals
Paton and MacArthur who did not see the war as over, and wanted
to take on the communists in China and Russia then, when we were
already mobilized and fighting.  Would we have won? On both fronts? I
do not know.  But I think it would have been right to have tried.</p>

[1] http://www.schierer.org/~luke/log/view.php?date=20050505-0939 <br  />
[2] http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=44210

[[!tag  uncategorized]]