---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-05-02 15:41:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p> Other science news:</p>

<ul> <li>"<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/4496893.stm">Quantum
leap in secure web video</a>" Quantum cryptography.  Apparently they
have keys that only work one time.  So you can miss messages,
but you'll know it.  And they change fast, so cracking one key
isn't all that good.  But I am still unsure, reading this, how
they send the keys so that there is a good chance of most of the
messages getting through unread, they still have to transport the
key <em>somehow</em>.</li>

<li>"<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/4506133.stm">US
export rules block space plan</a>" US rules block[ed?] cryptography
export, so quite a bit of it moved overseas.  Especially in the
open software world.  Will we see the same here?</li>

<li>"<a href="http://www.japantoday.com/e/?content=<?php echo
htmlentities("news&cat=4&id=335992"); ?>">Sony's Qrio robot
attending nursery school in California</a>" mentions that they
have been sending a humanoid robot to play with preschool kids.
They claim its "research" to see if robots will be
accepted, but when I hear about preschoolers being apprehensive and
then getting accustomed to it, I wonder how much of it is really
"make sure they will be accepted by introducing them young."
The Sydney Morning Herald in <em>Australia</em> reports on this,
and, as you can see above, Japan Today's English version reports
on it.  But I have not seen it in google news or any of my normal
news sources, I found it from a blog link.  I think that raises as
many questions in my mind as the story itself.</li>

</ul>

