---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-03-02 15:00:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p> Pat Buchanan has been off his rocker
frequently of late, but his most recent column, "<a href="http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=43106">A
republic, not a democracy</a>," has some good points in it
in the second half or so.  We are <strong>not</strong>
a democracy, and are not one for a good reason.  <a href="http://www.thefire.org/">FIRE</a> has been documenting
and fighting the tyranny of the majority on college campuses for
some time now.  Lately, in the cases of the president of Harvard
University and that Churchill idiot out in Denver, their work has
overlapped the same sort of tyranny outside of campus life, due to
the focus of the media on both cases.  Both cases want to silence
unpopular opinions, and while no one in their right mind would agree
with Churchill, I think that FIRE is right in arguing that you cannot
have a Summers (president of Harvard) without also protecting the
right of a Churchill to speak.  I have somewhat wandered astray here.
The overriding point is that this is an excellent example of the
will of the majority going wrong.  It was with knowledge that the
majority in many ways comes to resemble a mob, and that no one in
their right mind wants mob rule, that our founding fathers put
checks not just on each branch of government against the other,
but also checks designed to limit the popular impact on governance.
It was to check the mob that we have a president rather than a
prime minister.  We need to remember that, especially in these days
where the senate has been undermined and is no longer accountable
to the state, but to the people of that state.</p>

