## Family Inseparable

### Chapter 3

By: Musings of Apathy  
Edited by Luke Schierer

- - -

"Vernon," Petunia called to her husband. "Before you leave for work,
would you leave the key to the freak's cupboard?"

"Think he's been punished enough, do you?" Mr. Dursley answered from
the door to their en suit loo. "After what he did to our Dudley, the
boy can sit in there and rot for all I care."

"I agree," she told him. "I'm going to give the freak some bread and
water so he doesn't die on us."

Vernon came back into the bedroom straightening his tie. "I don't have
a problem with the freak's demise."

"Nor I," Petunia answered with a scowl on her face. "But someone knows
he's here. One of those freaks would notice and what would we do then?"

"True," Vernon said. "Just don't let the freak out for long. 'Till Dudders
is feeling better, the brat won't see the light of day, if I have my say."

"I'm making Duddykins' favourite this morning," Petunia said. "I'm sure
he'll be feeling better in no time."

"Did the freak make any complaints yesterday?" he asked.

"Not a peep," Petunia assured him.

"Maybe he's learning."

- - -

The first full day that Harry was at the Burrow, he ate just a little,
being too used to his aunt and uncle's insistence that food eaten by
him was wasted and, therefore, to be given at a minimum. On the second
day, his appetite was becoming what might be considered by others as
normal. The massive sandwich that Ginny prepared for his breakfast on
his second day, he would have previously considered a full day's meal
or more. However, before consuming the sandwich, he had eaten one of the
apples that was left over in Ginny's night stand on the way to his morning
bath. A half hour after breakfast, Harry was feeling the extra food that
his body was not quite ready for. With Ginny on lookout, Harry rushed to
the loo under his new invisibility cloak. Shortly later, Harry was back
in Ginny's room, suffering the punishment of gluttony. He would have to
give his body a chance to get used to the volume of food that a normal
child consumed in a sitting before he let his eyes talk for his stomach.

"Oh, Harry," Ginny said with worry. "I'm so sorry. I didn't realize
there'd be a problem. Are you alright?"

Harry groaned. "I think I ate too much. I...I just need to lie down."

"You need to rest anyway, Harry," she told him. "You're still not healed
from before."

"I'll be okay," Harry told her. "I am tired. I'm just going to sleep. Why
don't you go ahead outside with your brothers."

"Oh, I was hoping that you could come out with me," she lamented. "But
rest. You'll feel better tomorrow."

With her guidance, Harry settled on the bed. Ginny covered him in the
invisibility cloak and tucked it in before covering him with her sheets
and blankets. Harry was asleep before she would leave the room for the
great outdoors.

- - -

Harry's Aunt Petunia slid the key home in the dangling padlock and turned
it for a definitive click as the shackle popped out. She removed it
and slid the slide bolt open, unlocking the door to the cupboard under
the stairs.

"Come out, boy," she said harshly. "You have fifteen minutes to clean
yourself up and use the loo before I lock you back in here. You'll get
some bread and water to let you think of what you did wrong. Another
couple of days and we'll see if you learned anything."

When she didn't hear any stirring, she let the glimmer of worry cloud
her face. Was she too late? She peaked into the small space, but had to
move to the side to allow enough light in so she could see the contents.

- - -

Ginny played with her brothers for most of the morning. She packed a small
sandwich and a couple of more pieces of fruit with some cold water up to
her room for Harry's lunch, but he didn't rouse. She kept quiet to not
wake him and left the food on the lower shelf under the night stand in
case he should wake. It would not be evident there in any matter. She
again spent the afternoon outside with her brothers.

Fred and George had filched a wand from the attic, most likely from Uncle
Fabian or Uncle Gideon's trunk. The deceased twin uncles were heroes in
the Fred and George's eyes. The prankster twin brothers of their mother
had left journals that served as inspiration for their senses of humour
and prank.

"Oi, Fred," Bill yelled. "Leh'me see that. I want to show Gin-gin
something."

"You got a wand already, Bill," Fred argued. "Use your own!"

"We snagged this one fair and square," George continued.

"Long as mum isn't the wiser, it's fair anyway," Fred added.

"I may be an adult," Bill answered. "And can hex you two without a
ministry letter. But the tracking charm hasn't faded yet."

Fred and George looked at each other in consideration. Ginny looked on
with deep interest. She wondered what her eldest brother had in store
for her, what he wanted to teach her.

"I'll give it back without telling mum if you do loan it to me," Bill
bargained.

"Since you're so nice about it," Fred agreed.

"We'll be generous in sharing our bounty," George concluded.

"Good to know," Bill said. "Give it over."

"But, dear brother," George said.

"We'll bring it along," Fred continued.

"To the lesson ourselves," George concluded.

Bill fairly snatched the aged wand out of the twin's hand. "No, this
lesson is just for our sister," Bill told them. Ginny's curiosity was
at an all time high. "You two make enough trouble as it is."

"We're hurt..."

"Downright stunned!" they claimed.

Bill smiled as he reached his arm back over Ginny's shoulder. "You'll
get over it."

Bill turned himself and Ginny toward the wood behind the house.

"Come on, Ginny," the twins heard as they walked off. "I need to teach
you some things so you can defend yourself."

"From who?" Ginny asked.

"Anyone. Your brothers, strangers, whomever."

- - -

"Call for you, Mr. Dursley," his secretary called to him over the
intercom.

He pressed his button and spoke back to her, "Did you at least find out
who it is? That is your job."

The secretary ignored his abusive tone and answered, "It's Mrs. Dursley,
sir."

She was doubting that she needed this job enough to put up with the
arrogance and abuse that rolled off her employer like the copious amounts
of fat on the man's chins, but once again decided to keep a stiff upper
lip and continue.

"Alright," Mr. Dursley answered. "No disturbances, Martha."

She cut off with a answer of, "Yes, sir."

"Hmm," Vernon said to the empty room. "At least this one has been
trainable."

He pressed the blinking line and picked up the receiver. "Hello, Pet."

He listened to her for a a bit before interrupting, "Calm down,
Petunia. Tell me what happened."

He listened to her tell the story for a bit longer before she paused,
waiting for him to fix it. "Okay, this is what you do. If we're lucky,
the brat's gone for good. Clean up his cupboard with bleach, make sure
that all traces of him are gone from there. Move his clothes to Dudley's
second bedroom and put sheets on the bed in there with a couple of the
blankets from the upstairs cupboard. Make the bed look lived in. I'll
take a long lunch and come home. Have his mattress and sheets from his
room ready and I'll take it with me and dispose of them. When I get home
this evening, we'll both go to the constable and report him missing;
a runaway."

He listened to her worries over his plan before he responded, "We'll tell
them he's runaway for a day or two before, so we didn't call thinking he
would just be coming back like before. That'll make them not investigate
much. With everything clean, they won't find anything anyway."

He listened to her agreement with his course of action. "I'll be there
in two hours. Have everything ready. It'll be alright, Pet. You'll see."

He hung up and made arrangements to be gone from Grunnings for a couple
of hours around his lunch time. In his mind, he was looking for holes
in his plan and hoping that his freak nephew had left for good.

- - -

When they had walked a good way through the wood, Bill and Ginny entered
a clearing well known to all of the Weasley children. It was a popular
place for games and chases.

"Bill, what..." Ginny started but was cut off by a raised hand.

He raised his wand and waved it around the clearing, creating a gray
mist. With a stab, the mist rushed from the centre of the clearing and
seeped into the trees all around. As it seemed to solidify into a wall
connecting each boarder tree, they heard a duo of yelps from one side
of the clearing.

"George, Fred," Bill yelled toward the yelp. "I'm serious, no
eavesdropping."

He waved his wand in another spell that sent a lime coloured bolt to a
random spot on the coalesced white wall, causing the entire perimeter
to glow green momentarily before it settled into a dull olive colour

"There," he said. "That'll keep this private."

"What's that?" she asked.

"A privacy ward," Bill said. "Even works in an open area."

"Wow, is that what you're going to teach me?" she asked.

He ruffled her hair in an affectionate manner. "No," he said. "You're
quite the little sprite, but you won't be able to do that until the end
of Hogwarts, if you're even that lucky. What I'm going to teach you is
something that you can use to defend yourself and to teach any of us
lot a lesson if we get out of line."

"Really?" Ginny asked. "But I wouldn't want to hex you."

Bill smiled. "Thanks, kiddo, but you never know. Besides, the twins need
someone to keep them in line and to remind them not to mess with you."

"Cool!" Ginny insisted.

Bill drew the 'loaner' wand from his pocket and showed Ginny how to hold
it and point it. Within the hour, Ginny had learned to be proficient
at sending the sickly yellowish gray bolt at her target, in this case
a regretful Bill, with the practiced incantation of, "Bates Mocus! "

To be nice to her brother, she also quickly dispelled the secretions
from his nose with the equally newly practiced, "Finite Incantatem! "

Of course, much to Bill's detriment, the dispelling incantation was much
harder to correctly pronounce than the hex itself.

All in all, Ginny learned some good magic that day, if only she has
access to a wand when she needs one, such as the next time the twins
start a new round of pranks.

- - -

By the end of the week Harry was more properly up and around. His bruises
had faded fast with the assistance of Mrs. Weasley's potions and his
lethargy had changed into the opposite, a new abundance of energy that
was wasted inside Ginny's small bedroom. Without anything else to do,
he devoured any and all books that Ginny would sneak up to him. Harry had
reached a good pattern of going down to the kitchens in the times of the
day and night when they knew that none of the family would discover him
and cleaning up thoroughly behind himself so that his activities would
not be noticed.

The only problem surfaced one morning when he was finishing his bath, He
had taken a quick one, still not trusting there not to be an interruption,
which was the saving factor. When the door knob jiggled as he was putting
his boxers on, Harry panicked.

"Mum," he heard one of Ginny's brother's yell. "The bathroom door's
stuck."

"Try harder, Ronald," Harry heard the matriarch answer from down the stair
well. "No getting out of it. You have to bathe and go to your schooling."

"But it's summer," Ron whined.

While this was happening, Harry rushed to get the rest of his clothes
in hand and his invisibility cloak from the sink counter. He had the
cloak halfway over him when he noticed his necklace with the galaxy ball
on the other side of the sink. He snatched it just in time to pull the
whole thing together.

Ron tried the knob in earnest this time, and found it locked. He heard
him trying to turn it as the cloak flowed to the floor around Harry's
feet. With a deft flick, Harry unlocked the door after it went still
and waited.

"But it's locked, Mum!" Ron whined.

"It is not," his mum answered. "All of your brothers and your sister
are down at the breakfast table. No one is using the loo. Now, get in
there and take your bath before you get yourself grounded."

The knob suddenly turned, unencumbered by the lock. "I'm already
grounded," Harry heard Ron grumble as the boy moved into the bathroom.

He sucked himself to the wall, mindful of the hem of the cloak pooling
at his feet. After Ron passed, Harry slipped out through the still open
door. He saw Ron starting to take his pyjamas off over his head, mind
searing orange no less, as he slipped down the stairwell.

"And close the door before you start," Mrs. Weasley yelled up the stairs.

Harry heard more grumbling as the door was slung shut with an almighty
crack. He managed to slip into Ginny's room without any more close calls,
his heard pounding against his ribs as it was.

That left him behind her closed door with a damp head and an arm full
of clothes.

- - -

Ginny was happily eating her bangers when she heard something that nearly
made her panic. She saw her life flash before her eyes, as she imagined
Harry being discovered and her mum storming into the kitchen, telling her
that she should have known better, that Harry could never stay. She had
done everything in her power, and some things that clearly stepped over
the line, to keep Harry safe and with her. They had been doing good with
the eating and bathing to this point. She had filched extra clothing,
enough that he had a couple of changes still waiting for him.

"...All of your brothers and your sister are down at the breakfast
table. No one is using the loo." she heard her mum yell up the stairs.

All she could think was, Harry! She knew he was the one in the bathroom,
and that he would soon be discovered. And if he were discovered, he
would be sent back to his 'family' no matter what was the story.

She did the only thing she could she waited. When no shout of discovery
came, she excused herself from the table and stole up to her room,
her heart pounding and her breath ragged.

"Harry," she whispered after she closed the door. "Are you there?"

After a moment's pause, Harry peaked his head from under the cloak. "Is
it safe?"

Ginny flung herself into his chest, wrapping her arms tightly around his
invisible body, pinning his left arm to his side and his right awkwardly
in the air holding the cloak off his head.

"Is it safe?" she mocked. "You're asking me? I thought it was over."

"N-no," Harry stammered as he freed his right arm and returned the
awkward hug. "I'm fine. I'd already drained the tub."

"Good," she agreed. "Oh, I'm so glad you're safe. I thought they would
find you and then you'd be forced back with your aunt and uncle."

"What are we going to do?" Harry asked. "I can't bathe when you're eating
breakfast, now, can I?"

"No," Ginny agreed. "I didn't realize, but with Ron's tutor back from
holiday, he's going to have to eat and bathe earlier."

"When will I bathe?" he asked.

"When I do," she decided. "I used to bathe with Ron all the time. This
way you can't be caught."

Not seeing any problem, Harry agreed, "If you think it'll work."

"Yeah," she said. "Come on. Get dressed and I'll ask mum if I can go to
Luna's today."

"Really?" he asked. "Can I go?"

"Yeah, silly," she smiled, grabbing his hand and dragging him to the
closet. "'Course you can."

- - -

A quarter hour later, the couple was walking to the dirt road that
serviced the Burrow and a little ways down where there was a large
meadow. Luna Lovegood lived on the far side of the meadow from the Burrow,
leaving them to have a pleasant walk through the tall green grass under
the cloud dotted summer sky.

"Harry," Ginny said as she looked back along the path they walked. "You
can take your cloak off now."

Harry blushed unseen under the cloak. "Sorry, I forgot it was on. I'm
used to it."

He pulled it off and folded it into a square small enough to fit in his
back pocket, in this case in a pair of pants removed from some old clothes
in the attic that used to belong to the twins. With two boys before Ron,
the Weasleys had more than enough clothes to pass on to Ron, although
he avoided the ones with obvious burn marks and off colour bits from
their amateur potions experiments and pranks. This left clothes still
wanting in a trunk in the attic. The ghoul tended to harass any of the
boys that went into its domain, but Ginny had a free reign. Apparently
it liked her and didn't want to scare her off.

Harry was amazed at how small the huge cloth would fold, the first
time he folded it. The fabric was finer than the finest silk but many
times as strong. He had carelessly snagged the cloak on a protruding
nail in a stairwell board and managed to not rip the sturdy fabric in
the slightest. He could fit it in his pocket and it would still unfurl
and cover him, and Ginny if necessary, in a heartbeat without creases
or wrinkles.

"That's alright," she said. "I just wanted to see you while we walked
in the sun, for once. And to hold your hand without the cloak in the way."

Harry blushed with a smile on his face. "Okay."

The meadow was so broad that the crossing took them a good amount of time
at their leisurely pace. Harry was glad to be out from under the cloak,
but felt secure in the necklace around his neck for keeping him somewhat
protected from discovery and a trip back to Little Whinging.

When they reached the far side of the meadow, Harry silently donned the
cloak once again and retook Ginny's hand with the thin fabric captured
between.

They made it to Luna's house in a trice. Harry admired the unusual house
with a smile. The house was in a classic country style with exposed
brick exterior and a steep slate roof. Moss was working its way down from
the eves while vines worked their way up from the foundation, giving a
comfortable old look. The house sat on a calm, unmarked country road at
the start of some more serious forested hills. A short distance from the
low brick wall that peaked through the flowering overgrowth was a heavy
stone monument, set with mortar, holding an ancient spring fed trough.

A placard read: Feel welcome to quench yourself, dry soul. The spring
water is pure and clear. The trough old and worn. A life's journey aided,
their goal fulfilled.

A small pipe sticking from the rock face supplied a steady stream of
clear, cool water to the trough, which in turn spilled to a small,
rock lined pond, not much more than a permanent puddle, that fed the
heather and bracken. The vegetation gave way to large, full bushes and
lush ground covers as they neared the house. The simple brick house
was inviting in a way that the Dursleys would never have appreciated,
making Harry love it all the more in an instant.

Ginny let them through the wooden gate in the low wall without hesitation
and approached the door. Harry stood closely behind her shoulder as she
knocked on the old panel door. He heard movement inside the house before
it opened without preamble. On the other side was a girl, about Ginny's
age, with long, dirty blond hair and silvery eyes.

"Hello, Ginny," the girl said with a happy, dreamy lilt.

As Ginny returned her greeting, Luna's eyes shifted steadily to a point
over Ginny's right shoulder, looking directly into Harry's eyes, despite
him being under the invisibility cloak.

"Hello, Harry Potter," she said definitely.

"How...?" Ginny started.

Before Luna could answer the unasked question, a blond man appeared behind
her. He rested his hands on her shoulder and smiled at the visitors,
both of them, which unnerved Harry a bit.

"Hello, Ginevra," he greeted. "Who is your friend?"

"How did you see him?" she asked.

"Is this thing even working?" Harry asked at the same time. He stuck
his hand out of the cloak to see if there was a difference, although he
couldn't see one way or the other if there was, due to his eyes being
under the cloak in the first place.

"Oh, do come in," Luna invited. "Daddy will explain it all."

As she entered the home, both Luna and her father kept their eyes glued
to Harry, despite his lack of presence in the visual spectrum. They
entered the comfortable living room, which housed a surprising
amount of furniture, enough to seat many guests, as well as the hosts
themselves. They seated themselves at a love seat across from their
hosts silently.

The silence stretched on as both Mr. Lovegood and Luna seemed to stare
at the space where Harry sat under the invisibility cloak. Harry
was uncomfortable, but couldn't break the silence himself, out of
nervousness. The journey to Ginny's friend's house had started so care
free and sunny, now he didn't know what to think.

Ginny cleared her throat for a hint of sound in the room and then giggled
nervously when nothing else followed.

"Oh," Ginny suddenly said. "Introductions...Harry, would you take your
cloak off?" When he silently complied with her request, she added,
"Oh, and your necklace."

When Harry removed the galaxy, both of the Lovegoods blinked and shook
their heads, as if clearing them.

"Oh, quite good," Mr. Lovegood exclaimed. "Thank you for removing your
charm. Taps into a family trait or two, I'm afraid."

With a puzzled look, Ginny proceeded to introduce Harry, "Luna,
Mr. Lovegood, this is my friend, Harry Potter. Harry this is my friend
Luna and her father Xenophilius Lovegood."

"Hi," Luna responded.

"Hello, Harry," Xenophilius smiled. "It is nice to meet you. Sorry for our
responses earlier. You just happened to stumble on two of the blood traits
of my line. We can see through concealing magic, including things like
your cloak and more natural magical camouflage that some magic creatures
use. And second, diversionary magic, such as the Notice-Me-Not charms
on your necklace, draw our attention instead of the reverse. Yours is
so strong that it is nearly entrancing. I apologize for our rudeness,
however."

"N-not your fault," Harry said. "I guess it's understandable now."

Ginny relaxed and smiled, the tension gone. "Harry, remember when you
did that thing where I could look at you? Maybe it would work for them."

"Maybe," Harry replied. "If you don't mind, sir, I'm going to try to
stop the necklace. Could you put your hand on my shoulder?"

"Worth a try," the man said with enthusiasm.

He stood in front of Harry with his hands on the boy's shoulders while the
necklace was replaced. Immediately Xenophilius Lovegood's eyes snapped
back to Harry's face. With a bit of concentration, Harry managed to
include the man with greater ease than the first had taken. The process
was repeated with Luna, thankfully with the same results.

"Now," Mr. Lovegood continued once they were all seated once again. "How
did Harry Potter come to be travelling with Ginevra Weasley under and
invisibility cloak and heavy diversionary charms?"

"Um, well," Harry started. "I...my relatives aren't nice. After I
met Ginny, she invited me to live with her where it's safer. Somehow,
I guess I wished myself to Ginny, and there I was."

"Accidental apparition," Mr. Lovegood proclaimed. "And the hiding?"

"Harry can't go back," Ginny said. "If he's found, he'll have to go back."

"Okay," he responded. "I think your parents might surprise you, but I
won't tell them if you're not causing any harm."

"Thank you," Harry said.

"Harry, you should go talk to the Goblins at Gringotts, however,"
Mr. Lovegood advised. "The Potters have been a fine, upstanding family
for longer than they have been Potters. I'm sure there is something set
up for your upbringing."

"They won't force me to go back?" Harry asked.

"They helped you with the cloak and necklace, Harry," Ginny reasoned.

"Okay," Harry agreed.

"Very good," Mr. Lovegood clapped. "I'll just floo your mum, Ginny,
and see if she would allow you to come along this morning."

He rose and approached the fireplace. Harry was confused and momentarily
frightened as the man stuck his head in the fire, which had turned green,
but that abated when he didn't seem to come to any harm. Neither Harry
nor Ginny could hear any of the conversation, so just waited patiently.

Shortly, Mr. Lovegood returned from the fire and requested that Ginny
floo home for a moment before they embark. Harry was fascinated this
time as Ginny disappeared in the green flame, leaving a calm fire and
the echoes of her call of, "The Burrow."

- - -

When Ginny emerged once again from the green fire, she was clutching a
small leather sack and had changed her clothes.

"Mum insisted I change into my new dress," Ginny said by way of
explanation.

"Okay," Mr. Lovegood said, ushering them all toward the fireplace. "Ginny,
why don't you go first to the Alley and Harry will follow. Luna and I
will be along after."

Ginny agreed and showed Harry the Floo Pot where she had retrieved some
powder for herself. She told him about the ash and when to take a breath
and what to say. She told him everything her father had told her when
she made her first solo floo trip. She then vanished in green flame to
greet him on the other side.

"Your turn, Harry," Mr. Lovegood prodded. "Think you got it?"

"Yes, sir," Harry said with more confidence than he had.

He did as he was shown, tossing the powder in the yellow fire, watching
the fire turn green, taking a breath, stepping in and calling out clearly,
"Diagon Alley."

- - -

In Little Whinging, a doorbell sounded, interrupting the activities of one
of the households. Each house looked the same, within a small margin; pale
tan bricks, thin gray mortar lines, dark shingle roofs. So to distinguish
this house from the hundreds of others, the sign at the end of the street
said 'Privet Drive' and the number on the door was a simple '4'.

The door was opened by a slender woman, tall in stature, with a craning
neck and long face.

"Hello Constable," Petunia greeted, keeping up appearances. "Please
come in."

"Thank you, ma'am," the officer said, entering the house. "I'll try not
to keep you."

"Please, have a seat," she entreated. "Would you care for tea?"

"No, thank you, I won't be long," he said, his creased black uniform
flawless. In one hand he held a bound notepad and in the other
his peaked cap from his uniform. "We have checked into your nephew's
disappearance. We have found no traces. No neighbour saw him leave." As he
was looking down at his notepad, he failed to see the look of unhappiness
that showed on Petunia's face when she realized that the bobbies had
went around asking about her family's business. "And he hasn't showed
up at any hospitals or shelters. At this point the active investigation
is over and he has been listed on the missing children's database. He
will be looked out for throughout Surrey. If he is registered at any
hospital or orphanage in England, you will be notified and he will be
returned safely."

"Thank you," she replied evenly.

"There is no reason to worry, ma'am," the constable tried to reassure her,
mistaking her tightly controlled voice for that of hidden concern. "There
is no evidence of foul play. I am sure that he will be returned to you
in as good of condition as he departed. Fear not."

The constable stood and departed with little show of emotion from
Mrs. Dursley. This convinced him that the woman was just holding it
together while a stranger was in her house. There was nothing further
he could do to comfort her in his professional capacity. He drove away
in his panda car, hoping for something to bring the case back to active
for some hope for the woman.

With the constable gone, Petunia dialled a familiar number on her phone.

"Vernon Dursley, please," she paused as the receptionist asked a
question. "Yes, this is his wife."

- - -

After a dizzying journey, with many unfamiliar grates flashing by before
he decided that he would close his eyes, and remove his glasses before the
next trip. Harry stumbled from what he hoped was the right fireplace. He
was unsure how he was supposed to tell what was right, after listening
to Mr. Lovegood's instruction to not step out of the wrong one.

Ginny caught him with a hug before she started to brush the soot from
his clothes. The brush was surprisingly effective at removing the black
carbon powder, an effect he had no trouble attributing to magic.

"You made it," she stated. "How was your first floo trip?"

Harry looked around the dingy pub that looked to be out of another
century, but dismissed the thought, as he hadn't experienced pubs in the
past, beyond hearing Vernon's rants and the few glimpses on the telly. The
attendance in the pub was light, just a couple of patrons that were
either sloshed or tired from a hard night's work and had yet found a bed.

"Strange," he said. As he did, Luna joined them without falling to the
floor herself. Swiftly behind her was her father.

"Harry?" Ginny asked. "Would you carry this in your pocket? This dress
doesn't have any."

She held up the small leather pouch which contained her allowance, one of
the things she had to floo home for. The sack contained four individual
sliver sickles and twenty-nine individual bronze knuts. Harry accepted
the sack and shoved it in his front pocket were it would be safe. He
could tell it was her coin purse, but didn't pry.

Mr. Lovegood ushered them through the pub without anyone recognizing
Harry for who he was. Harry didn't know better, but Ginny was glad,
as she didn't have Harry put his cloak back on. They emerged in a brick
walled spot that seemed forgotten at the corner of four buildings. It
was empty save for a couple of metal dustbins.

"That, Harry," Mr. Lovegood told him, "was The Leaky Cauldron, the
primary entrance to Diagon Alley, our next destination. In case you
ever meet him, the proprietor of the pub and inn is a man named Tom,
but be cautions, the actual owner of the business is the Ministry of
Magic and you can't trust what they put in the food. If it just says
something like 'meat pie', you'll never know what kind of meat. Stick to
things that are identifiable, like roast beef or chicken sandwiches. I
once uncovered a plot by the Minister to rid himself of the Goblins by
having them murdered and baked into the meat pies. Of course, we all know
that wouldn't work. The Goblins are too ferocious to be taken like that."

"Wow," Harry said, not disbelieving anything, but not believing it
whole either.

"Now, come along," he said, tapping the right brick with his wand. Harry
had not seen too many wands to date, just a couple in the Weasley
house while he was under his cloak, and the use of them still amazed
Harry. Where Mr. Lovegood tapped, the brick started to wiggle, which
caused the other bricks to wiggle in a wave as they retreated to form
a large arched entry to a cobbled street that Harry would have never
guessed to see behind a pub. "Welcome to Diagon Alley. Luna, keep an
eye out for nargles and other creatures. You know how they like to visit
busy magical places."

"Of course, Daddy," Luna responded.

Harry didn't even question the thought of a creature he hadn't heard of
before. He had read of many new and fascinating creatures in the books
Ginny brought him to read, what was one more? Ginny, however, smiled,
finally understanding that Luna and her father could really be seeing
things others didn't.

They walked down the centre of the alley along the cobbled
streets. Harry's neck swivelled left and right in constant motion. He
would need ten more eyes around his head to see all of the interesting
things. The pet shop had hairy snakes and winged lizards in the window,
as well as a bat hanging from their sign. Harry thought it to be part
of the sign until it scratched its belly with a claw sticking from its
wing joint. There was a shop selling cauldrons; black, gold, silver
and clear. There were shops with things in bottles and shops with
books, ones with clothes and ones with brooms. There were
cafés, a couple of pubs and an ice cream parlour

"Up ahead," Mr. Lovegood said. "We'll go to Gringotts first."

In front of them, looming over the fork in the alley was a stark white
building with stairs leading up to a huge set of burnished bronze doors,
the likes of which Harry had never seen before. Dressed in a scarlet
and gold uniform, a single creature stood outside, giving each person
that approached an eagle eye, no doubt looking for trouble.

"That's a goblin, Harry," Ginny whispered to him. Harry accepted the
information, but didn't do anything more than give a polite wave to the
creature, for which he received no response.

Harry ascended the steps and pushed on the doors, expecting to find
them unmovable, but was surprised when they moved smoothly under his
strength. This led them to a small entry and another set of doors,
these silver with an engraving that Harry couldn't read before he was
ushered into the bank proper by his companions. There he saw more goblins
working behind counters on tall chairs. There were ones counting gold,
silver and bronze coins by the stack, there were goblins peering through
complex looking eye pieces at large jewels, and there were others making
entries in huge ledger books. Only a smattering of humans could be seen,
mostly customers, but some workers behind the line of counters.

The four stood patiently at a line on the marble floor, waiting for
an unoccupied goblin teller. Mr. Lovegood crossed his arms and held a
content smile on his face, while the children all looked at anything
and everything with curiosity.

"May I help you?" a goblin asked as he closed the ledger book he was
working in. The four walked up to the counter the goblin was using.

"Go ahead, Harry," Mr. Lovegood urged. "You're the only one that can
conduct your business."

Harry stepped forward nervously. "Um, hello."

"How can I help you?" the goblin asked, strain on his patience evident
in his voice.

"Um...I wrote to Mr. Pickrake and he wrote back with some help for
me. Can I speak to him?" Harry asked.

"Pickrake is a very busy goblin," the teller said. "What is your name?"

"Harry Potter, sir," he responded.

"Very well," the goblin said, showing no interest. "I will send a note
to Pickrake, and he can decide if you are worth his time."

"Thank you," Harry responded.

"You can wait over there," the goblin dismissed. "A messenger will find
you with an answer."

Harry and his companions stepped back and waited where
indicated. Mr. Lovegood settled on the bench and proceeded to distract
them with stories of searching for fantastic creatures, his wife's work
for a small spell research firm and Luna's accomplishments in art. Luna
was blushing furiously at his praising description of a bird she had
sculpted from clay that proceeded to come to life and fly away. At her
age of five at the time, she was inconsolable. Harry quite agreed with
her logic when she said she decided to not sculpt another until she
could figure out how to keep her art from flying away.

A half hour later, a wait made easy by Mr. Lovegood's stories, a goblin
approached.

"Is one of you Mr. Potter?" the goblin asked.

Harry nodded and said, "I am."

"Pickrake will see you now," he said, turning and walking toward a
hallway at the far end of the main banking room.

Harry looked at the assembled group and started to follow the
goblin. Behind him, he heard Mr. Lovegood say, "We'll stay here and wait
for you, Harry."

Harry turned around to see that he and Luna hadn't moved. Ginny, however,
looked torn.

"Will you come with me, Ginny," Harry asked.

"Sure," she agreed. She was relieved to go with him. She had helped
him in his dealings to date and felt a certain personal investment in
his welfare.

- - -

They were directed into a large, stately office to find a more wrinkly
goblin sitting behind a grand wood desk.

"Hello, Mr. Potter, I presume," he stepped around the desk and shook
Harry's hand. "And this must be Miss Weasley. Please sit and we will
get down to business."

Harry and Ginny sat in neighbouring leather chairs facing the goblin. They
were both nervous and unsure, to the extent that they sought comfort in
each other. Their hands met between the chairs and clasp as if natural.

"What business brought you here today?" Pickrake asked.

"We were visiting Mr. Lovegood and he said that we should make
arrangements since I am not at my aunt and uncle's any more," Harry
said. "Is there something given to the people I stay with?"

"There is, indeed, provisions in your parent's will that provide for
your care," the goblin said. "Unfortunately, these provisions were not
enacted due to circumstances surrounding your placement in the Dursley
household. As they were forbidden to be your guardians, they could not
be compensated in the slightest."

"What do you mean?" Ginny asked.

"The will specified two homes that you could be raised in and an executor
to provide for your well-being should the both of those not be possible,"
Pickrake replied. "As they were not possible, the executor, Albus Percival
Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, chose a home for you of his own council. But,
as he ignored your mother's wishes that you not go to her sister, payments
could not be arranged to them and Gringotts would not recognize them as
having any power of attorney over your assets. Gringotts informed Lord
Dumbledore of their inability to receive any compensation for housing you,
but the decision was his alone."

"Professor Dumbledore put him there?" Ginny asked.

"His reasons are his own," the goblin said. "But, yes it was his duty
to make that decision."

"Can the Weasleys receive the money since I'm there?" Harry asked.

"That would be the fairest of choices," the goblin agreed. "How much
would you like them to be compensated? Whether they know you are there
or not, costs for your care are involved."

"Well," Harry considered. "Uncle Vernon once said that it cost a hundred
to keep me. Would that be okay?"

Harry remembered that night in vivid detail, but not happily. He
frowned. Vernon had been ranting about the cost of the ungrateful whelp,
Harry, and the rising costs in Great Britain. Harry was glad, at the time,
to be sequestered to his cupboard early that night. Vernon had figured
the costs based on the food eaten at Number Four and the monthly energy
bills to keep the house running. He had divided the totals up and come
up with a figure of a hundred pounds a month for Harry's existence,
a total that both Vernon and Petunia thought conservative.

"Yes, Mr. Potter," Pickrake said. "I will make arrangements for a hundred
galleons to be transferred to the vault of Arthur and Molly Weasley on
the first of each month, starting in two weeks. Is this acceptable?"

Harry looked to Ginny for confirmation, which she gave freely. She had
five sickles total with her today, which was a lot for her, so the amount
of a hundred galleons was inconceivable. But if his uncle said that it
cost that much to keep him, she would agree with the arrangement.

"Yes, sir," Harry agreed.

"I have your vault keys here," Pickrake said. "You may have them. I had
to make a copy of one that was still in the possession of the executor
of your parent's will. I suspected that he would have discovered your
relocation if I had recalled it from his person, so I chose to make
another."

"Thank you," Harry said, accepting the ring of keys.

"You may wish to visit the Potter vault before you leave," he
offered. "You may find some interesting and useful items for you there."

"Thanks, I would like to," Harry said again. "Can I ask a question?"

The goblin nodded clearly and Harry continued with the question, "You
sent me the Potter rings. Am I Lord Potter?"

"Not yet," the goblin said. "Not until you are an adult or married,
which would make yourself and your wife legally adults. You may find a
book on wizarding traditions and marriages in the vault that would give
you all the information you need."

"Is that why you sent the rings?" Ginny asked.

"I was unsure when in the future they would be required," Pickrake
replied. "So I sent them in the case they were needed. Now, if you like,
I will have someone take you to the Potter Family vault."

"Thank you," both Harry and Ginny said, taking their leave. A goblin
waited outside the office that would take them and the Lovegoods to
the vault.

- - -

Behind closed doors, Pickrake basked in the memory of the two polite
human children. He could well see that they would cause quite a stir
in their own time. A stir was good from his point of view, as long as
it was not one of evil origins, and the departing couple could never be
described as evil. Ah, the entertainment found by the outside observer.

