##Harry Potter and the Request for Help 

###The Sorcerer's Stone
####**THE VANISHING GLASS**

By Luke Schierer

some authors start with this chapter.  I'm tempted to do so myself. 
- - -

**Nearly … too.**

The audience will express a lot of confusion at this point.  I really like the
way [Time to take a chance
](https://archiveofourown.org/works/17996822) does this.
Remus, Sirius, and others who either know Petunia from before or know Harry's
relatives dislike him want to believe he isn't living with them.  Given we
currently have Chapter 1, we all know who the Dursleys are, but there will still
be reactions to the descriptions of Dudley.  While a number of people will be
thinking about it, someone will ask the question - where is Harry? He'll give a
"you'll see" sort of answer. 

**Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise of the day.**

**“Up! Get up! Now!”**

**Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.**

**“Up!” … before.**

This will confuse people.  Why can Harry hear the kitchen so clearly?  
There will be some comment about that dream being real, the only question is do
I do this as amazment from McGonagall and Hagrid, or is it from Remus and
Sirius?  I like the idea that Sirius probably took Harry up on the bike before
against Lily's wishes.

**His … door.**

**“Are … demanded.**

**“Nearly,” said Harry.**

**“Well, … birthday.”**

Molly will object to this, something about him being too young probably.
Sirius will start to probe for information and Harry will push back.  

**Harry groaned.**

**“What … door.**

**“Nothing, nothing …”**

**Dudley’s … spider … cupboard … slept.**

The audience is shocked.  Someone will ask Flitwick to verify the dictation
spell.  Ron has to face that Harry has had things really badly.

Hermione is horrified.  While she could have suspected starting from when Ron
and the twins rescue Harry, I do not think she did. I think her shock will be
much greater than Bookworms75 portrays in [Time to take a
chance](https://archiveofourown.org/works/17996822). 

Sirius and Remus will be enraged, but Remus will have to exercise self control
for both of them. Overall I like what Bookworms75 does with this chapter, and
I'd be tempted to substantially copy it.

**When … exercise**

Comments about the presents.  The purebloods do not know what these are.
Hermione is reacting not just to the # but also to the price tag. One of the
Weasleys, Draco, and at least one other student I think.

** unless … fast.**

This will cause an uproar. 

**Perhaps … age. He … old clothes of Dudley’s … was. Harry … lightening. He … it.**

Again let's go with Bookworm75's take - have someone else reminise about James
being small and skinny, and have Sirius say something to the effect of "not that
small." Madam Pomfrey will be upset at this point.  Harry will be upset back -
why is this important now, why not anytime in the past 3 years?  I think
Bookworm75 could have emphasized the "why now" better.  

Ron will probably ask about Harry liking his scar.  Harry will reply that he
didn't know why he had it yet.

**“In … questions.”**

No one will like hearing that he was told his parents died in a car crash.  His
teachers and the ravenclaws won't like the "Don't ask questions."

**Don’t … Dursleys.**

The teachers other than Snape may realize how little Harry asks for help and
why.

**Uncle … bacon.**

**“Comb … greeting.**

**About … place.**

Molly will say something about his hair, she can't help herself even though she
doesn't like agreeing with his uncle.  Sirius and Remus will talk about Potter
hair.

**Harry … wig.**

The description of Dudley will amuse the boys and disgust the girls.

**Harry … fell.**

**“Thirty-six,” … year.”**

shock

**“Darling, … Daddy.”**

**“All … over.**

would he really do that?
he would.

**Aunt … right?”**

outrage.  He is spoiled.

**Dudley … thirty …”**

**“Thirty-nine, … Petunia.**

He can't possibly be that dumb.
He is.

**“Oh. … then.”**

**Uncle Vernon chuckled.**

**“Little … Dudley!” He … hair.**

Arthur will speak up bout poor parenting.

**At … worried.**

Comments about the price tag of the items?  A gold watch for an 11 year old will
mean something to the purebloods who normally get a watch for their 17th. 

**“Bad … direction.**

**Dudley’s … Mrs. Figg, … owned.**

Sirius should recognize Mrs. Figg's name - I'm fairly confident she's mentioned
as part of "the old crowd" after the tri-wizard, but I need to double check
that.

Will Harry get sympathy for being left behind, or will some adult feel obligated
to get on his case even though it is fairly normal for an eleven year old boy to
dislike going to a house that smells to look at pictures of cats.

**“Now … again.**

I suspect Molly or Hermione will feel it necessary to say something here,
especially if nothing was said before.

**“We … suggested.**

The twins ask about the balloon incident.

**“Don’t … boy.”**

Sirius growls.

**The … slug.**

outrage

**“What … Yvonne?”**

**“On …t Petunia.**

**“You … here,” Harry … computer).**

Molly will not like this suggestion. Never mind that even today most states in
the United States would allow an eleven year old to stay home alone.  I realize
this is Britan, but between it being some 30 years earlier, and given the age
today is a "recommendation" of twelve or older[^20200619-1], I'm going to go
with this being an example of Molly's overprotective tendencies.

[^20200619-1]: NSPCC. "Staying home alone"
<https://www.nspcc.org.uk/keeping-children-safe/in-the-home/home-alone/> Last
viewed 2020-06-19. 

**Aunt … lemon.**

**“And … ruins?” she snarled.**

Hermione and Molly will not like that _this_ is the reason he isn't left.

**“I … house,” said … listening.**

Seamus would comment about blowwing things up being stress relief.  Someone
would ask him about the number of explosions he causes. 

**“I … car …”**

Hermione will hit the roof on this one.  For all leaving kids in the car for the
length of an errand used to be common when I was growing up, the modern
consensus that it was never really safe is probably more correct than not, and I
suspect that Hermione reads enough that she'll realize that a kid in a zoo
parking lot all day is at risk.  She'll have to explain herself though, because
the purebloods won't understand the implications.

**“That … alone…”**

Hermione will burst out again, but it'll be brief.

**Dudley … wanted.**

It is mind boggling that this works, and someone will say as much.

**“Dinky Duddydums, … day!” she … him.**

The adults will be disgusted at the poor parenting on display.  
The students will be reacting more strongly to the nickname.

**“I … everything!” He … arms.**

Grumbling.

**Just … rat. He … them. Dudley … once.**

We've got 3 separate reactions here.  One to the description.
Sirius will ask if Harry was the one with his arms held.  Harry will respond
that they couldn't often catch him.
Someone will notice that Dudly turns off the water works.

**Half … life. His … aside.**

**“I’m … Christmas.”**

Harry will have to placate someone, Vernon's bark is worse than his bite.

**“I’m … honestly …”**

**But … did.**

Snape will snear.  He's sure this is proof that Harry is no good.

**The … happen.**

Until everyone realizes that the books is refering to Harry's accidental magic.

**Once, … quickly.**

This will cause an uproar. Punishing a child for accidental magic just isn't
done.

**Another … punished.**

This one will cause confusion.  Why _wasn't_ Harry punished? Not that he
_should_ be, but it doesn't make sense. Eventually someone (Harry or Mr.
Weasley?) will point out how common it is for muggles to invent odd explanations
for things to allow themselves to deny magic.

**On … buildings. But … mid-jump.**

Molly will jumpt to conclusions and critize him for doing unsafe things.  Then
everyone will realize that he didn't actually climb up there.  There will be a
lot of amazement - accidental aparition? Harry will suggest it could be
something else.  Snape will remember (but not mention) Lily flying from the
swing.

**But … living room.**

Harry just jinxed himself.

**While … motorcycles.**

Hermione or Ginny will comment on this. Perhaps the Twins will do so and the
other two will only have been grumbling. 

Sirius might wonder about his motorcycle. 

**“… roaring … hoodlums,” he … them.**

**“I … flying.”**

Hermione will say something to Harry about asking for trouble.  Harry will have
to remind her that this was years ago. He might also try to justify himself
based on his overall excitement at being out of the house at all.  How often do
eleven year olds really think that far ahead before saying something afterall?

**Uncle … mustache: “MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY!”**

Someone, unsure who, won't be able to resist correcting him.

**Dudley … sniggered.**

**“I … dream.”**

**But … cartoon — they … dangerous ideas.**

This will certainly prompt a discussion.  The purebloods don't know what
cartoons are, and the twins will want to know about something that could give
them ideas. Molly will _not_ want them to know about something that could give
them ideas. Hermione will be amused and possibly exhasperated because even if
cartoons might give the twins ideas, they are afterall kids shows, and there is
really no reason to forbid the twins from watching them. 

Intermixed with this is the realization that as the Dursleys know that Harry
_is_ a wizzard, giving him ideas about magic _is_ (from their perspective)
dangerous.  They are trying to "stamp it out of him" afterall, and ideas about
it would be counterproductive.  This will probably come from Tonks, or Kingsley,
or some other relatively "neutral" adult.

**It … blond.**

One related work has a really fun exchange between Harry and Angelina for this
section.  She tries to get upset about the lemon ice treat, and Harry keeps
twisting her words.  

Everyone will be amused at the comparison to the ape, but Molly will feel
obligated to tell Harry off for being rude.  He'll take offense at this, it is
afterall something he thought, not something he said.

**Harry … him. They … first.**

Someone (Hermione with her faith in adults?) will express disbelief that Dudley
could get away with this in public.  Harry will point out that no one every
stopped him at school, or reported the obvious neglect. Dumbledore may shift
guiltily at this point but no one will notice. 

After the comment above about the ice cream stand, Aurther or Madam Pomfrey will
think to ask about if he ate lunch. I doubt he did. 

**Harry … last.**

**After … asleep.**

Again I'd be tempted to pick up whole an exchange I read in another work
(possibly the same one?) where Ron and Hermione talk about how Harry doesn't
tell stories properly. 

**Dudley … coils.**

**“Make it move,” he … budge.**

**“Do it again,” Dudley … on.**

Vernon's parenting skills will cause comment.

**“This is boring,” Dudley … away.**

**Harry … house.**

Someone will notice that Harry is comparing himself to the snake and won't like
that on principle.  The thought may or may not be vocalized.

Someone else will comment on what it says about him that he does feel sympathy for
the snake.  Again the thought may or may not be vocalized.

Only one of the two thoughts will be vocalized. 

**The … Harry’s.**

**It winked.**

Some ravenclaw will feel obligated to point out that this is impossible. 

**Harry … too.**

**The … plainly:**

**“I … time.”**

**“I … annoying.”**

**The … vigorously.**

**“Where … anyway?” Harry asked.**

**The … it.**

**Boa Constrictor, Brazil.**

**“Was … there?”**

**The … zoo. “Oh, … Brazil?”**

**As … jump. “DUDLEY! … DOING!”**

**Dudley … could.**

I'm not sure about this one.  People could be amused about Dudley waddling, or
annoyed that he's around at all. 

**“Out … you,” he … horror.**

This will move things decidedly in favor of being upset that Dudley is around at
all. 

**Harry … vanished. The … exits.**

Vanishing the glass is probably fairly impressive for accidental magic.  Someone
will comment.  Percy? 

**As … said, “Brazil, … Thanksss, amigo.”**

The sibilance will be interesting to someone.  Daphne or Luna?

**The … shock.**

**“But … go?”**

I read Luna introducing the whole "into nonbeing that is to say everything"
thing here. 

**The … say, “Harry … Harry?”**

The twins will contemplate mayhem - they do not like someone getting others in
trouble this way. 

**Uncle … say, “Go … meals,” before … brandy.**

I think this is the first time that no meals is mentioned. It _will_ be noticed,
_and_ commented on. Harry will attempt to deflect the conversation, awkwardly.

**Harry … food.**

Harry will think this makes it fine - see? He does get food. This will not work.
The fact that people are harping on it will upset him further.

**He’d … forehead. This, … house.**

His memory of anything at all from 15 months is unusual.  McGonagall, Dumbledore
and Flitwick will have a whispered conversation about it in which Dumbledore
will avoid actually saying anything meaningful.

The part about no questions and no pictures will elicit sorrowful sounds and
looks that will just annoy Harry.

**When … family. Yet … look.**

Someone suggested that Dumbledore got the wards wrong; that, being essentially
an academic with little to no practicle experience, Dumbledore messed up.  I
could see Dumbledore allowing this speculation as it is (from his perspective)
better to be thought incompetent than for his true motivations to be
suspected.[^20200624-1]

[^20200624-1]: See [[Dumbledore]] for more on this.

**At … gang.**

I think this will be the first time that Ron will realize that Harry really
isn't used to having friends. This may hit home for others to - just how
isolated he is, how much he has felt the neglect.
