##Harry Potter and the Request for Help

###The Sorcerer's Stone
####Chapter 1

By Luke Schierer

- - -

**Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, … much.**

Scattered muttering broke out across the hall.  Eventually one of the Govenors
spoke up. "Why are we reading about these people? I thought these books were
supposed to be about Mr. Potter's interactions with Hogwarts and its staff."

Croaker replied "The spell that Harry used will occasionally interject
descriptions of additional events that are necessary to understand the base
story."

**They were the last people … nonsense.**

This proved two much for the Weasley twins.  

**Mr. Dursley … drills. He … mustache. Mrs. Dursley … neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley … anywhere.**

Hermione tells Mr. Weasley to write his questions down.  Molly says something
about the Dursleys as parents.  

** The Dursleys … secret, … Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, … good-for-nothing husband … unDursleyish … street. The Dursleys knew … son, … mixing with a child like that.**

Snape will think something mean about Petunia.  Sirius will growl about the
reference to James.  Some Ravenclaw will object to the non-word.  A variety of
reactions to the idea that Harry is to be avoided. 

**When … Tuesday … country. Mr. Dursley … boring tie … chair.**

Perhaps a comment asking what day it was?  Certainly someone will ask about
there being a "most boring tie."  

**None … owl … window.**

**At … having a tantrum … “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley … drive.**

There will certainly be a comment about being pleased with Dudley.  The only
question is who from?  Molly, McGonagall, Sprout, Pomfrey, or someone else? 

**It … a cat reading a map … sight … trick of the light … mind. As … day.**

Someone will certainly be disdainful about muggles not believing in magic.
Someone might recognize McGonagall and ask why she was there. 

**But … strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks … these weirdos … whispering … obviously collecting for something … his mind back on drills.**

A pureblood confused about how cloaks can be considered strange.  A different
wizard offended about being called a weirdo.  A comment about the Statute of
Secrecy. 

**Mr. Dursley … owls swooping … never seen an owl … perfectly normal, … yelled at five different people … shouted a bit more … walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.**

More about the Statute.  Some comment about yelling at people being normal.
Harry will remark about his uncle walking except that it is for a bun.

**He’d … whispering excitedly … saying.

“The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —”**

People will realize when this is here?

**“— yes, their son, Harry —”**

**Mr. Dursley … Fear … it.**

**He … changed his mind. … Potter wasn’t such an unusual name. … he … called Harry … seen the boy … upset at any mention of her sister … sister like that …**

Comemnt about Potter is in fact unusual.  Correction that it is common for
muggles.  Comment about not having seen your nephew or even knowing his name.
Snape will think something about the reference to Lily. 

**He … walked straight into someone just outside the door.**

**“Sorry,” … tiny old man … a squeaky voice … day!”**

Someone will ask if this was Flitwick.  It was not. 

**And … off.**

**Mr. Dursley … hugged … called a Muggle … rattled. He … didn’t approve of imagination.**

The Weasley twins will grumble.

**As … tabby cat … same markings around its eyes.**

Someone will definitally recognize McGonagall if it has not happened already. 

**“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly.**

**The cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look … wife.**

Someone will be amused at her actions. 

**Mrs. Dursley … Dudley … “Won’t! … Mr. Dursley evening news:**

Comments about Petunia and Dudley.

**“And … owls … hundreds of sightings … unable to explain … Jim McGuffin with the weather … Jim?”**

**“Well, Ted,” … Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee … shooting stars! … promise a wet night tonight.”**

Tonks comments on Ted.  Comments about the stars - blame assigned. 

**Mr. Dursley … a whisper about the Potters . . .**

**Mrs. Dursley … He’d have to say something to her … your sister lately, have you?”**

**As … shocked and angry. After all, they normally pretended she didn’t have a sister.**

Snape will be silently upset.  Someone else will be vocally upset.

**“No … “Why?”**

**“Funny … today . . .”**

**“So?” snapped Mrs. Dursley.**

**“Well, … her crowd.”**

The audience won't like the way he's been talking about them, but it won't be
anything specific except perhaps the "her crowd." 

**Mrs. Dursley … didn’t dare. Instead … about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?”**

He should know Harry's age.

**“I … stiffly.**

**“What’s … it?”**

**“Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.”**

Ginny won't like this at all. 

**“Oh, … agree.”**

**He … waiting for something.**

questions about what McGonagall was waiting for.

**Was … he didn’t think he could bear it.**

Draco will be sympathetic to this, so will Umbridge. Neither will say anything.
Hagrid or Flitwick will object.

**The … no reason for them to come near him and Mrs. Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and Petunia thought about them and their kind … it couldn’t affect them. …**

Objections about "their kind."  Molly or Remus (or both) will be upset with Dumbledore
because it was known what the Dursleys thought about magic.  Sarcastic amusement that it
will affect them.

**How … was.**

**Mr. Dursley … cat … statue … it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at
all.**

Some question about why she did this.

**A man … appeared … popped out of the ground. The cat’s … eyes narrowed.**

**Nothing … tall, thin, and very old, … silver … beard, … tuck into his belt … blue eyes … sparkling behind half-moon spectacles … nose … crooked … Albus Dumbledore.**

**Albus Dumbledore … unwelcome … being watched … cat … seemed to amuse him … " … known.”**

Dumbledore comments he did not care he was unwelcome.

**He … silver cigarette lighter … lamp went out … Put-Outer … spoke to it.**

Question about the name, and a correction.  Yes he invented it.

**“Fancy … Professor McGonagall.”**

Someone self congratulates, and is rebuked because no one doubted it.

**He … ruffled.**

**“How … me?” she asked.**

**“My … stiffly.”**

**“You’d … all day,” said Professor McGonagall.**

**“All day? … celebrating? I … here.”**

**Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.**

**“Oh … Dedalus Diggle. He never had much sense.”**

McGonagall will be embarrassed at being caught having said this.  Is Diggle
present?  I'm unsure.

**“You … eleven years.”**

**“I … rumors.”**

**She … on. “A … he really has gone, Dumbledore?”**

Umbridge asserts he has.

**“It certainly seems so,” said Dumbledore. “We … drop?”**

Fudge calls Dumbledore out for agreeing with Riddle being gone.

**“A what?”**

**“A … of.”**

Snide thoughts by Draco and/or Snape.

**“No … gone —”**

**“My … ‘You-Know-Who’ nonsense … Voldemort.” Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore … notice. “It … name.”**

Comments about Riddle being afraid of Dumbledore.

**“I … of.”**

Perhaps teasing about thinking the same as McGonagall.

**“You … have.”**

**“Only … them.”**

**“It’s … blushed … Madam Pomfrey … earmuffs.”**

Students disgusted.

**Professor McGonagall … said, “The … him?”**

**It … answer.**

**“What … Lily and James … dead.”**

Some sort of reaction to this.

**Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.**

**“Lily … Oh, Albus …”**

**Dumbledore … heavily.**

**Professor McGonagall’s … on. “That’s … gone.”**

Harry might speak up at this point about how no one knows anything, he shouldn't
be famous.

**Dumbledore nodded glumly.**

**“It’s … survive?”**

**“We … never know.”**

Alternately Harry might be thinking to himself about how Dumbledore is lying.

**Professor McGonagall … Dumbledore … said, “Hagrid’s … way?”**

Umbridge will be upset about the reference to Hagrid but probably won't say
anything.  Someone may comment about Hagrid being unable to keep secrets.
Someone may ask about why McGonagall didn't already know anyway.

**“Yes, … places?”**

**“I’ve … now.”**

Outrage of several possible different forms.  Does Harry have other family on
his dad's side who, even if not Potters, might be outraged? Even if not, no one
will like this idea at this point given what we have read.

**“You … here!”**

Molly and/or Pomfrey will feel it necessary to comment on Petunia and Dudley
again.

**“It’s … a letter.”**

A letter will not satisfy the audience.

**“A letter … name!”**

Harry will vocally hate the idea of Harry Potter day.  Snape and/or Draco will
mentally scorn his "false" humility.

**“Exactly … it?”**

Harry might call Dumbledore out at this point.  There were other options.

**Professor McGonagall … it.**

**“Hagrid’s bringing him.”**

**“You think … this?”**

McGonagall will apologize to Hagrid, who will wave it away.  Harry will support
Hagrid if anyone objects to Hagrid being trusted (Umbridge?). 

**“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dumbledore.**

**“I’m … that?”**

**A … huge motorcycle … landed on the road in front of them.**

Harry will be surprised that his dream was real.

**If … blankets.**

Harry's description of Hagrid is amusing. Harry objects that he did not write
it.

**“Hagrid … motorcycle?”**

**“Borrowed … Sirius Black lent it … sir.”**

Harry questions the common wisdom about Sirius.

**“No … there?”**

**“No … Bristol.”**

Harry might ask questions here about who was at the house first.  Hagrid was.

**Dumbledore … lightning.**

**“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall.**

**“Yes … forever.”**

**“Couldn’t … Dumbledore?”**

**“Even … with.”**

Objection that Dumbledore sounds uncaring.

**Dumbledore … house.**

**“Could … sir?” asked Hagrid … howl like a wounded dog.**

**“Shhh! … Muggles!”**

**“S-s-sorry … Muggles —”**

**“Yes … found,” Professor McGonagall … Dumbledore … walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep …out.**

Loud objections about him on the door step.  It was November, rain was forecast,
he could walk.  Molly, Pomfrey, others. 

**“Well … join the celebrations.”**

Grumbling, but no outright comments.

**“Yeah … sir.”**

**Wiping … night.**

**“I … Professor McGonagall,” said Dumbledore, … reply.**

**Dumbledore … four.**

**“Good luck, Harry,” he … was gone.**

**A … hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!”**

End of chapter.

[[Previous|fiction/Harry_Potter/Reading_the_Books/Prologue]]

[[Next|Chapter02]]
