---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-06-10 16:59:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p>Taking morphine is addictive, but we proscribe it for the dieing
to ease their pain.  This is good.  Chemotherapy and radiation
therapy are both practices in which we do things that kill all
cells because they happen to kill cancer cells faster.  We use
these treatments on patients every day, we have nothing better, and
sometimes they work.  So I am very sympathetic with those who have
been prescribed marijuana as a pain killer by a competent doctor.
The doctor may be right, the cost of not taking it may be higher
than the cost of the addictiveness and side effects.</p>

<p>But it is illegal.  And everyone knows it is illegal, and so
it is highly irresponsible for these doctors to be prescribing it
anyway.  And Mr. William F. Buckley is correct, it is laudable for
the Supreme Court to refuse to legislate from the bench.[1] While
I might question the constitutionality of the illegal drug laws
themselves, I do not think I would win even with courts benched by
constitutionalists.  And given that, it was the right decision, it
seems to me that a strong case can be made that this is interstate
trade.  Of course, if it were not universally illegal, perhaps
it could be grown in California for use in California pharmacies,
but that argument was not made here, or at least in the report of
it I see.[1]</p>

<p>But Mr. Buckley does make one rhetorical error.  He criticizes
Mr. John P. Walters, President Bush's drug czar, for "dogmatic
positions."  I infer from this wording that Mr. Buckley thinks the
positions are not backed by fact.  That dogma is necessarily somehow
less than science.  An utterly bogus line of reasoning.  Perhaps
Mr. Walters' statements are dogmatic.  Perhaps he <em>is</em> wrong,
but he is not wrong <em>because</em> his statements are dogmatic.</p>

<p>Mr. Buckley then goes on to state that because you can find
some people helped by marijuana, statements that it has not been
"medically established that marijuana uniquely grants such relief
as is being touted" must be inaccurate.  I wonder if Mr. Buckley is
familiar with the use of placebos in medical research.  I wonder
if he is aware that we do so because some people will experience
relief simply because they think they should.  The relief is no less
real, it is not hallucination.  It is simply evidence that the mind,
the will, can act in ways science cannot explain.  Mr. Buckley
should also take a look at the current FDA rules and regulations,
and how hard it is to get a new drug approved, before he criticizes
the drug czar's statements in this manner.  He should perhaps be
talking about reforming FDA instead.</p>

[1] http://www.townhall.com/columnists/wfbuckley/wfb20050607.shtml

