---

title: 20050505-1142
date: 2005-05-05 16:42:00
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
layout: rut
---

<p> Ederlyn <a href="http://www.livejournal.com/users/baranoouji/206573.html">waxes
lyrical</a> and says more and better than I ever could on the
hypocrisy of complaining about immigrants not knowing English.
I did not leave a note there, my thoughts are only tangential
to hers.  She is certainly right, many are just as she describes.
On top of that, many come here so that their children will have a
better chance, and then the school system lets them down so badly.
It has no expectations, and is more concerned with their "emotional
health" and "racial identity" than their education, and ability to
succeed later in life.  The children, left in a vacuum as their
parents struggle to support the family, or sink into despair in
the face of our dehumanizing welfare system, join gangs, create
violence and problems that then backlash against their communities.
The immigrants take jobs that by and large we would not, President
Bush is right on that one, and get treated like dirt for it.
I thrill to see in the comments of one of her posts that Ederlyn
is teaching them about minimum wage and job interviews.  And yet,
I do not think that authorizing illegal immigration is right either.
We are not overrun by immigrants, given time, given effort on their
part (doubtlessly present in many if not most cases) and effort on
our part (mostly lacking), we could assimilate these immigrants just
as the European immigrants went from ethnic enclaves in the cities to
being so assimilated that we have, as a culture, forgotten the racial
problems we once had.  This will happen over time effort or not.
And we, the native born, <em>will</em> be changed in the process.
Do you think it will be the first time?  Read history again.
The Irish <em>certainly</em> changed us.  The influx of eastern
Europeans did as well, look at the prevalence of beer and the
relative drop in hard ciders.  The Italians?  What area is without
it its Italian restaurants?  What <em>is</em> "American" food?
It seems a mish-mash of every other culture, and so we, as a people,
are in many respects.  But the melting pot takes time, it has never
been boiling hot, and is certainly rather tepid now.</p>

<p>On the other hand, it certainly is not all that pleasant when
you are working second shift, and the cleaning people come in, and
you do not know Spanish worth a darn, certainly not at the speed and
complexity they speak it, but you are not blind either, and you can
tell by the body language that some of that conversation is making
fun of you and your co-workers, making use of the fact that they
<em>know</em> we do not know Spanish.  And it does not help matters
when I, as a white male, am <em>presumed</em> to be oppressive,
ignorant, and bigoted.  The racism and stereotypes go both ways.
And it <strong><em>certainly</em></strong> does not help that my
entire post will be utterly dismissed now that I have written this
(relatively) short paragraph.</p>

