## Family Inseparable

### Chapter 2

By: Musings of Apathy  
Edited by Luke Schierer

- - -

In a room at the top of a stone tower in an ancient castle sat a man, his
beard flowing in silver to his belt and glasses perched on his nose. He
was busy, but with as little to worry him in the past years compared to
the decade prior, he was happy, his smile evident behind his beard and
in his twinkling eyes.

He monitored many things in the wizarding world, whether they be part
of his duties as Headmaster, Supreme Mugwump or Chief Warlock. But what
he considered his most important task in monitoring the world for the
future was his protection of Harry James Potter. He did this through a
few of the silver instruments on his tables and shelves, and, according to
them, the outlook was better than it had been for years. The instruments
mostly fed off of Harry's own feelings, and he was feeling more at home
and safer than he had in a long time. Things were improving. Similarly,
according to a monitor on the wards surrounding his aunt's house, not
a single dark wizard or witch had approached his town in all this time.[^20180702-1]

[^20180702-1]: For a discussion on Dumbledore, and the blood wards, see [[the Notes page|Notes]]

His back-up, Mrs. Figg, was to be away from her post for two more months,
at least, while she tended to her daughter who had just went through a
difficult birth of her first child. The Headmaster was not especially
supposed to do it, but he checked the enrolment roles of future students
and saw that the family of squibs was going to get a pleasant surprise
in eleven years, a most pleasant surprise indeed.

But Mrs. Figg being gone from Little Whinging wasn't a burden, because
the instruments showed Harry home and safe from any dark wizards.

- - -

Mrs. Weasley knocked before walking into her daughter's room with a load
of folded laundry. She bustled around, hanging and filling drawers. Ginny,
however, didn't stir. Her crown of red locks peaked from under the
quilt and Mrs. Weasley could see the lump her daughter made wrapping
around the lump her companion made. Charlie had really hit the nail on
the head by choosing the stuffed dragon, which Ginny dubbed Puff from a
story her father had read her. She now slept with the dragon every day,
without fail. The thing was as long as her! But Molly remembered her
youth, before she was married, and her staunch use, then, of her own
full length body pillow. Now she still liked to cuddle in her sleep,
only now Arthur provided the cuddles in return.

She bustled around the bedroom, cleaning and tidying the small
space. Ginny's was the smallest bedroom, barely enough room for a cot
in case she had a friend over for the night, but not enough room for it
to be any stretch of time. Ron's room was the same way, but with seven
children, they had to make do with what they could. They took turns in
everything. Arthur and her had their own loo, but the other children
had to get by with sharing one. She tried to make it easier by teaching
them early to clean up after themselves, but boys were harder to teach
than she remembered being herself.

Ginny's dresser and night stand were littered with dolls and stuffed
animals. She found several of her potion vials, undoubtedly from the
'potions' the twins made for Ginny at her insistence. She had watched
with concern, at first, as the twins made the first. She talked to them
about the 'potions', but they insisted they wouldn't hurt their little
sister. She watched as they took various juices from the cupboard and
minced flower petals from the garden into the mixtures. Molly knew the
'potions' to be harmless and without effect, but when Ginny wanted
to play healer, the twins were her natural source for the 'medicine'
that she pretended to give her dolls and animals. Really, Molly was
sure that Ginny convinced her brothers to make her the 'potions' so
that she could have more of the juice, and flower petals weren't toxic,
according to her reference book, 'Household Hints for the Modern Witch'
by Gilderoy Lockhart. The man knew his stuff, and he made it clear that
the flower petals wouldn't harm. The book even told stories about his
exotic travels and the things he had eaten in far flung countries. He
had eaten violets in Venice, daylillies in Da Nang and roses petals
in Raniganj, so some juice with ground up petals wasn't going to hurt
her. Molly gathered up the empty potion vials so she could scourgify and
store them for the next batch of potions she made for the house. She
swore, with six boys, if she didn't have some potion making skills,
the family would go dry in the vault. The boys were always snitching a
healing potion of one sort or another when they scraped themselves up.

Ginny was neat, but was still learning the rest of the household chores
that were a woman's duty. However, she had many years before it would
be necessary. For Arthur's sanity, it would be at least a decade and a
half before that day. But, who knows, maybe she would be like so many
young adults and get married directly out of Hogwarts. Whatever made
Ginny happy.

She finished tidying up in Ginny's room and moved on. Ginny was still
sleeping, cuddling her companion, from what Molly could see, and
oblivious to the world. A bit more sleep would do her good while the
porridge cooked. Plain, it was nothing to look at, but the kids would
eat it up with a bit of jam and honey.

- - -

Ginny awoke slowly, basking in the warmth under the covers. She didn't go
through the shock of finding someone in her bed without remembering why;
she remembered who and why he was there. When her father and mother told
her stories repeated from the Daily Prophet about how Harry Potter had
changed the world, she had imagined him a knight in shining armour. Her
father cleared that up right quick. He reminded her that he was just a
little older than her, not some grown man on his steed saving damsels in
distress. He had done a great thing at an age when the only explanation
could be his raw magic aided by something unknown. Still she had hoped
that the reality of Harry Potter turned out to be as nice as she had
imagined. What she found was a nice boy who was given to share himself
with other caring people. Harry, however, was not a perfect knight in
shining armour He had problems; a family that hated him, a cousin that
bullied him and children around him that treated him like he had the
pox. But he had things going for him as well; he was kind, despite his
treatment by his family, he was loving, she knew, he was powerful, as
demonstrated by his accidental magic the previous day, and he was loved,
which she hoped helped him, as she didn't plan to stop.

Beside her, Harry shifted. He twisted into her and clutched her tight
from his dark position under the covers. Ginny lifted the covers to
allow some light into their little world. She saw that Harry's bruises
had improved and he no longer looked like her mum's meat cupboard,
but he still needed some tending.

"Harry," she whispered.

He mumbled something unintelligible, but didn't do anything further
toward awakening. She moved her hand to shake his t-shirt clad shoulders,
which provided some more response, but nothing like actually waking. He
still didn't seem to want to do that.

Ginny slid from Harry's grasp and exited the bed. She smoothed down
her pyjamas, where the top had bunched up and would have gotten a
bit breezy, had it not been summer. Harry was left under the covers,
the blankets covering to his lower back, leaving marks showing on the
back of his shoulders and the side of his face that wasn't pressed into
her mattress. Her heart ached for him and she promised to do what was
necessary to keep him safe.

"Harry," she insisted quietly, "you have to get up, now."

Harry shifted, opening his face toward Ginny's voice.

"Harry," little Ginny said. "Wake up. You have to drink your potions now."

Harry mumbled something that seemed to end in a question mark, so Ginny
repeated herself. Harry, too bleary to question, sat up and downed another
round of healing potions before the foul taste shook the sandman from
his head.

"Yuck," he declared. "What's in that stuff?"

"I don't know," Ginny said honestly. "Would it help to know?"

"No."

Harry was awake and aware for the first time since his trip through the
ether. He examined Ginny's room; the dresser, the walls with hand drawn
dragons and pictures of family, sign on the back of the door proclaiming
the room a 'Brother Free Zone'. A thought came to him, albeit slowly.

"Ginny?" Harry cautiously asked. "Where am I?"

"You're in my room."

"But..." Harry stammered. "How? I don't remember leaving my aunt's."

"Well," Ginny temporized. "Um...Magic."

At his unbelieving look, she rushed on. "My daddy tells me bedtime
stories. Sometimes they're about this evil wizard and the powerful and
young wizard that defeated him. But daddy told me they weren't just
stories. It really happened."

"Like Merlin?" Harry asked, pegging on the only wizard name he could
think of.

"Yeah, Merlin was a wizard," she confirmed. "But a long long time ago."

"You mean, he was real?" Harry asked wide eyed.

"Yeah. Um...Harry," Ginny bit her lip. "I know how you got here. You're
a wizard. I'm a witch. Magic is real."

"It can't be," he insisted. "I can't be a wizard."

"Why?" she asked.

"I'm just Harry. I live with my aunt and uncle. My parents died in a
car crash when I was one. Would all that have happened if I was a wizard?"

"Car crash?" she asked. "What's a car?"

"Car, you know," he told her. "You know, big metal thing that moves
people around?"

"Oh," Ginny realizes. "I've seen those. My daddy called them automobles,
though."

"Same thing."

"You're mum and dad didn't die in a car crash," she told him. "They died
when the evil wizard killed them."

"But..." Harry argued. "The Dursleys told me that my father was drunk and
crashed the car. I can't remember, but when I try real hard, I remember
a flash of green light."

Ginny gasped, tears coming to her eyes. "That..." she stammered. "That's
the killing curse."

"The..." Harry repeated.

"The killing curse," she told him. "It wasn't a crash. The evil wizard
tried to kill you after your parents but it broke."

"Broke?" Harry asked.

"I don't know," she told him. "You're alive. He's not. He just vanished."

"But I'm not a wizard," Harry repeated.

"Yes you are," she told him. "When you were a baby, it was your magic
that protected you. My daddy and mummy told me stories about Harry
Potter who was magic just like me. Oh, and remember in the park? That
was magic. You pulled me from that mean boy with your magic."

"I did?" he asked. "Then, last night when Dudley tried to hit me, his
fist just stopped and he flew back into the wall. Did I do that?"

"Yeah," she affirmed.

"But," he rationalized. "How did I get here?"

"You must have wanted to be here," she told him. "Your magic brought
you here. It's called appa...appa...app'rition. Yeah, app'rition. Your
magic brought you."

"Wow," he said. "Can I go anywhere I want?"

"Eventually," she said. "They don't start to teach magic until you're
a lot older and you can't get a license for app'rition until you're way
older. Bill can do it."

"Cool," Harry said. "But how did I do it then?"

"I don't know," she said. "I once turned my brussel sprouts into green
chocolate, but I have no idea how to do it again."

- - -

With a promise of food, Ginny put her dressing gown on and left Harry
alone in her room. He got dressed in the shorts and t-shirt that Ginny
had left out for him. Now all he could do is look around the room and
wait. When he looked closer at the photographs that hung on the walls,
he staggered back when he saw one waving at the camera. Not just with
a hand up in a waving gesture, but actually waving back and forth at
the camera from behind the glass in the picture frame. Curious, Harry
looked at the cover of each of the books on the shelf, but didn't open
any, as he didn't want to overstep his bounds. Eventually, all that was
left was for him to wait on the bed for Ginny's return.

Meanwhile, at the breakfast table, Ginny was dishing plum jam into her
bowl of porridge. She liked it best with jam and a dollop of honey right
in the centre She didn't stir the bowl, preferring to get a bite of pure
jam and honey with each bite. As she ate, she listened and participated
in the conversation around the table.

"Mom," Fred started. "Forge and I have an experiment that we need to do,
can we use the shed out back again?"

"What do you want to do?" she asked.

Meanwhile, Ginny was drawn into a conversation that Bill was having with
his dad about Gringotts and his new job.

"I'm telling you, dad," Bill said. "Most wizards don't even come close
to understanding what Goblins really are or how useful they can be."

"And why is that?" Arthur asked, drawing out the logical conclusion from
his son.

"Well," Bill said. "I think that it comes down to the prejudices that
most of our society have, both overt and ingrained."

"But many families," Arthur argued lightly, "such as ours, actively
discourage bigotry. How do you think that effects things."

Ginny didn't understand everything that her brother and daddy were
talking about, but she enjoyed listening to her big brother Bill being
such an adult.

"I think that it's ingrained," Bill said, "In our education and in how
the ministry treats non-humans. They lead our society, for better or
worse. Was Professor Binns the History of Magic Teacher when you were
in school?"

Arthur laughed. "It hasn't been that long ago since I was your age,
son. Professor Cuthbert Binns died in my third year. But he had taught 
history at Hogwarts for nearly a century before his death of old age. 
He may have even taught Dumbledore while
the Headmaster was in his youth. If not, it was close."

"And that's part of the problem," Bill espoused. "For more than a century
History of Magic has taught about goblin wars, but not the Goblin's
reasons behind them. They make it out like they want to overthrow
the Ministry, when they are fighting for their rights and for treaty
violations."

"And who knows how long the same curriculum was taught before Professor
Binns was on board," Arthur added.

"Yeah," Bill adamantly agreed. "And in truth the Goblins are right
helpful in the things that concern them. In my first week there I saw
a young couple come in there. They had been devastated by a fire in
their home. They lost everything. They were trying to get a loan from
the Goblins to be able to rebuild their lives, but were so shaken. The
loan officer, Flintring, helped them out. He suggested a vault search
before they entered into a loan, not a normal procedure for the bank
when they are dealing with Muggleborns, which this couple both were, and
they found that the wife's great-great-great-something-aunt was a witch,
the last witch before a long line of squibs. It was a simple procedure,
just a drop of blood, and they had enough to rebuild their lives without
being monetarily indebted to the bank."

"Well, you're right," Arthur said. "Most witches and wizards wouldn't
think to ask for help from non-humans, more their loss. Unless they know
what they are asking for, our society isn't used to asking for anything
from the Goblins."

What she was able to understand of her brother and father's conversation
gave her an idea. The Goblins could help. She didn't know how, but isn't
that what her daddy said? The Goblins could help even if you didn't know
what help exactly you needed.

She finished her bowl of porridge and dished another, adding marmalade
and more plum jam and a dollop of honey. She folded a few pieces of
fruit and some toast in a napkin as she stood from the table.

"Still hungry, Ginny dear?" her mother asked quietly.

"I wanted to take some food with me for a project in my room," she
said. She hadn't lied, but her mum probably thought the food would be
for her. "Can I take some pumpkin juice up with me?"

"If you clean up all of your dishes before dinner tonight," Molly said,
"then yes, you may."

Ginny readily agreed and fetched a jug from the cold cupboard before
she took her bounty from the kitchen and up the stairs. Extra food was
not unusual for the Weasley kids. They always seemed to be taking extra
portions, but easily burned them off in one of many athletic pursuits. If
nothing else, Molly was a mother that wanted to make sure that everyone
around was well fed.

"Hmm," Arthur said to his wife, "I almost expected her to mention that
Harry chap again. I wonder if she decided to trust that he is being
looked after now."

"We can only hope," Molly agreed. "I do worry about the poor boy. But
what can we do about a Muggle boy, no matter his plight?"

"And the MLE's check of the shop the day after your visit only showed
your's and Bill's wand presence that day, so the boy wasn't wizard-born,"
Arthur reminded her. "There's nothing we can do. The Ministry has no
ability to find a Muggle boy by his name alone, and they did report as
much as they could through the Muggle authorities, but that's all they
could do. I'm sure the Muggles will be keeping an eye out for the boy."

"I hope you're right, Arthur."

- - -

Harry ate with appreciation as much as he could of the food Ginny brought
him. With a large bowl of porridge, four pieces of buttered toast,
two apples, a plum and three figs, he had more food than he normally
received in an average day. Harry savoured the flavours of the porridge,
as that and the toast would not keep for his lunch and dinner later in the
day. With an apple and fig for lunch, he would have a good sized dinner
of the rest of the fruit before he went to sleep at the end of the day,
where ever that happened.

"Mmmm, Ginny," Harry said appreciatively. "This is so good. Don't you
think your mum will miss this much food? I don't want to be a burden."

"It's not that much, Harry," Ginny told him. "I'll try to bring some
more for lunch and dinner, if I can."

"More!?!" Harry asked, wide-eyed. "This is already a lot of food. Aunt
Petunia never let me eat too much."

"Eat whatever you want," Ginny said. "There's always enough food in
Mum's kitchen."

"Okay," Harry agreed cautiously. He'd still save something for later,
just in case.

"Oh," Ginny said. "Bill had a good idea! We can write the bank for
some help."

"You...you told Bill I was here?" Harry asked, glancing at her door,
as if expecting it to be stormed at any time.

"No," Ginny assured him. "Bill was talking about his job and how helpful
the Goblins were. I think they might be able to help."

"G-goblins?" Harry stammered.

"Yeah, goblins," Ginny said. "They run the wizard bank, Gringotts. They
could help."

Harry thought about it. He was willing to trust Ginny and her world;
it had to be better than the one he came from. He didn't understand the
magic part of what he was told, but his hopefulness let him accept it
as a possibility, as did his trust of Ginny's word.

"How can we ask them?"

"Write them a letter, silly," Ginny said. "I'll help you."

- - -

After helping Harry to write a letter, she changed and set out with
the rolled parchment to check if Errol was rested enough to carry it
to London. The owl was sleeping with his head tucked, but Ginny could
tell that he was rested in body, as he acted like a bird on his roost
rather than a beleaguered feather duster on the table below. The owl
had been in the service of the Weasley family for so long that he was
old and bone weary in his old age. After a round trip delivering mail,
he would come home to fall limp on any flat surface for some rest. He
only made it up to the roost after a good sleep.

She roused the bird for the delivery, but despite the off-time request,
the owl took it without argument. He was well used to this little girl's
unusual mail delivery requests by now. After accepting his instructions,
Errol swooped out of the kitchen doorway, which Ginny made sure was
fully open for the bird.

For the rest of the day, Ginny told Harry everything she could about
the wizarding world as she understood it. Harry absorbed the information
like a sponge and was attentive to every word Ginny said. The attention
made Ginny feel even more special. In a family of nine, even one that
tried as much as the Weasleys, one individual tended to be washed into
the background. If one of them wasn't causing a ruckus, as the twins
often did, they were more easily ignored. So Ginny enjoyed having Harry
all to herself.

- - -

A knock sounded at the stately doors to the grand office. When a command
of 'enter' was heard, the executive secretary brought in an envelope for
the powerful inhabitant of the office.

"Pickrake," the secretary called. "This arrived from the mail room. From its address, the
Goblins there thought it was best routed to you."

"Bring it here," the Manager of Gringotts London instructed. "I wonder
who would be writing me instead of their account manager?"

He took the parchment roll from his secretary and examined the wax to
see if it could shed any light on the possible contents.

> Dear Mister Goblin Head, 
> 
> My name is Harry Potter. My friend said I
should write. Her brother said that the Goblins could help with alot of
things. I need help. Ginny said that I had to be honest with you. My aunt
and uncle are not nice people. They don't like me and they hit me. It was
really bad but I don't live there any more. Ginny said I could live here
with her. Ginny's real nice to me. But she says that if I'm found by her
parents or brothers they will send me back with my aunt and uncle since
they are my family. I don't want that. I want to stay with Ginny. But
Ginny says that I would have to stay with family and she isn't family. I
wish she could be my family. Her family is so nice. Can you help me
so they don't find out that I'm here? Can you help me to not have to
leave? They won't send me back if they don't know I'm here. Please help
me so I'm not found.  
> 
> From Ginny and Harry.  
> 
> P.S. I put some blood on the bottom there. I don't know why. Ginny said to.

There was indeed a drop of blood, which a common goblin piece of magic
revealed to be from the true heir of the Potter name and legacy.

The Goblin Manager stood from his desk with an amused grin on his face. Of
course, while any goblin would recognize it as such, most humans would
have to try to resist the urge to just run away in terror, as his feral,
sharp teeth mashed together.

Oh this is so fun, so rich. The hero of the wizarding world was placed in
such a deplorable environment and had found himself a way out when his own
kind hadn't even lifted a finger, or even noticed, for all Pickrake knew.

Pickrake so loved playing with the wizarding world that had maligned his
tribe so. He found pleasure when he could help cause the sort of chaos
that would be coming when this was discovered. He liked to help humans,
when he found them worthy, that is. And this human, heir to the Potter
legacy, had just shown himself worthy, by helping himself and then asking
for help when he knew he needed it. Well, Pickrake would find a way to
help the whelp out.

"Morrknive!" he bellowed.

His door opened, emitting his executive secretary. She was a fetching
goblin and quite capable, to have risen in the ranks to be his assistant.

"Send for the Potter family account manager," he told her. "And make
sure that he brings the appropriate ledgers and keys. I wish to go to
their vaults. Young Lord Potter has asked for assistance in a personal
matter and I am going to grant his request."

"Right away," she said, excusing herself.

Pickrake sat back with his mind turning over what help he could offer the
young Lord, and what entertainment could be had through his assistance.

- - -

Ginny had, indeed, come through with a modest lunch and a fabulous dinner,
by Harry's standards, which left Harry lethargic and sated for the first
time in his memory. He now had so much food that he ate a snack between
lunch and dinner, as his stomach started to demand more. He placed the
uneaten fruit in Ginny's night stand with her permission.

That night, for the first time when he was fully conscious and coherent,
Harry snuggled down with Ginny under the covers, her head once again
the only thing peaking above the covers.

When they both awoke, they had been left undisturbed once again in her
bed. This time, Molly had no clothes to put away in the early morning
hours and so had left the couple alone to their sleep, even if she still
thought the second lump in Ginny's bed was still a stuffed plushy dragon.

They awoke to heavenly smells of breakfast wafting up to them. Their
mouths both immediately watered.

"Mmm," Harry hummed. "That smells good. Good morning, Ginny."

She yawned. "Good morning, Harry. You're right, it does smell good."

They both removed themselves from bed and stretched with smiles on their
faces. Ginny looked at the door and back at Harry. She hated to just
leave him there, but didn't have another solution. Outside her door,
she heard two sets of heavy feet descending the stairs loudly. She
counted that the twins had now gone to breakfast.

"Go ahead," he told her.

"Okay, Harry," Ginny said. "The bath is a flight up the stairs. Breakfast
will take a while. It can't be heard from the kitchen. You could take
a bath if you wanted."

"Um..." Harry said. He had got along the day before with a wash cloth
and towel along with her ancient water basin in her room, but a bath
sounded great. "Really?"

"Yeah," she confirmed. "Feel free. I'll, um...oh, you need clothes."

Harry looked down at himself. He was once again wearing the blindingly
orange boxers and oversized t-shirt she had nicked the night he
arrived. His other change of clothes, which she also nicked from the
laundry room, were under her bed. The clothes he arrived at the Burrow
in were completely missing, disposed of efficiently by Ginny.

"Just wear those," she told him. "You still need to rest. So just get
back in bed. I'll find you something to read."

"Oh...thanks," he tentatively gave her a half hug in appreciation. She
would have none of it and returned the hug in full, testing his newly
healed ribs.

Outside the door they heard another cacophony as one more of her bothers
descended to breakfast.

"Sounds like Ron," she said. "That'll be the last of them. Go bathe and
I'll bring you some breakfast."

Ginny parted with a hug. She slipped her dressing gown on and exited
the room.

Harry took the towel that Ginny had provided him the previous morning and
cautiously pulled the door open. What he saw was stairs spiralling down
and up from Ginny's small landing. Apparently they were in a tower of
sorts as Ginny's room was the only one on this floor. He could not hear
any sounds coming from the floors above, but the din from below spoke
of the large Weasley clan. Harry was unsure of venturing from the safety
of Ginny's bedroom, but a bath was what he needed more than anything at
the moment. Turning back into the room, Harry snagged an apple from the
night stand drawer and cautiously left the confines of the girl's room.

He crept slowly up the stairs, staying to the outside of the tread,
just in case any had loose enough nails to squeak as they flexed. Half a
turn up he found another door, which proved to not be a bathroom, as it
contained a bed and desk rather than tub and loo. The bedroom was neat as
a pin and the door declared it to be Percy's. Harry vowed to himself to
keep an eye out for signs on the other doors, so as to not risk discovery.

Another half turn up the circular stair found another door. This one
unlabelled, although the door knob was porcelain rather than brass,
and had little red roses painted onto the glazed surface. Harry slowly
turned the handle and pushed the door. Inside he found the bathroom
he was promised. The room was old and lived in, unlike anything that
would have been allowed in the Dursley house. The floor was aged tile,
with the glaze worn in front of the pedestal sink and still damp around
the claw foot cast iron tub. Harry was glad that it was sunny out, as
he couldn't see any switch on the wall for lights, not that he saw any
fixtures with bulbs. All he could see were several candle holders with
half burned candles encrusted in melted wax along one wall.

After the lack of electric lights, Harry was glad to see two taps
overhanging the tub and a rubber stopper hanging from a beaded chain
draping over the side. In a dish on the window sill were three bars of
soap; one white, one orange and one blue. He replaced the stopper in
the tub before trying the left hand tap. The water that came out was
steaming and very hot to the touch. Harry let it run while he pulled the
other open. He was rewarded with cold, nearly icy, water to temper the
scalding hot from the other tap. Harry stripped as the tub filled. The
tub was large and slow to fill, but Harry didn't want to rush it by
opening the taps any further. The rush of full blast water could make
too much noise, despite Ginny's assurances otherwise.

While he waited for the tub to fill enough, Harry investigated the
sink. There he found many used tooth brushes in a variety of colours
sticking from an old coffee mug. Harry, however, was only interested
in the tube of tooth paste that was beside it. He spread a bit on his
right forefinger, just as he had many times at the Dursleys', so that
he could clean his teeth. He worked the paste into a lather and scrubbed
each tooth until he could feel it smooth and squeaky. When he was done,
Harry rinsed and spit, his teeth clean and sparkly.

Harry tested the temperature of the water before slipping into its
hot depths. He turned the taps off when the water was enough to cover
his chest as he lay down in the steaming water and wasted no time in
grabbing each of the bars of soap and testing their fragrance to his
nose. One, the blue one, he recognized as the one Ginny used, the others
he wasn't sure about. He chose the white one, the one without fragrance,
and lathered his body, cleaning himself thoroughly.

- - -

Down at the scrubbed wood dining table, the family, including Ginny,
sat for a typical Weasley breakfast. There were bangers, eggs scrambled
fluffy, eggs with their orange yolks still standing up and wobbling in
the middle of a white apron, rashers of bacon, stacks of toast, and, since
it was summer, stacks of fruit from the village market. The table was the
normal study in a rambunctious large family, with many conversations and
attentions divided many ways. Ginny sat next to her father, this morning,
so she decided that he was as good a source of information as she needed.

"Daddy?" Ginny started. "What's family?"

"What do you mean, Ginny?" her dad asked.

"Well, I know that Bill and Charlie and Percy and Fred and George and Ron
are my family because they're my brothers," she enumerated. "And you and
mum are my family because you're mum and dad, but what else is family?"

"Well, baby, normally, family are the people that we care about and are
related by blood to us," Arthur answered. "Like your Grandmum. She's your
mum's mum, so she is family and we care a lot about her. The same's true
of your fourth cousin Elsie, we don't see her often, but we care about
her and she's related to us and is family."

"But," Ginny argued. "I understand that mum's my family, because we're
related, but is she your family? She's not related to you."

Arthur stole a glance at his wife and found her following the
conversation. He winked at her with a smile. "Oh, yes, she is part of
my family and I'm part of hers," he told his daughter. "See, not all
family is related to us. She is family because we loved each other and
we married. So, she is family."

"What's married?" Ginny asked.

"Married is where a boy and a girl who love each other decide to spend
the rest of their lives together and so they make a bond with each
other," he told her. "In the Muggle world, the bond is simply a legal
commitment with verbal oaths exchanged, but in the magic world, the
bond is magical. There are no governments to say that you are or aren't
married. Magic is the bond. A witch and a wizard perform a ceremony and
bind themselves together in love for the rest of their lives."

"Wow," she said. "And you loved mum that much?"

"I still do," he said. "I loved her then and I love her now."

"Oh, okay," Ginny said. She then wrinkled her nose. "Does that mean that
I have to marry my brothers? We're witch and wizard. I love them. Does
that mean that we have to marry?"

"No, baby," he laughed. "You don't marry brothers. They're family
already. When the time is right, you'll meet another wizard that you'll
love and want to spend the rest of your life with and that is the man
you will marry, if he feels the same. Then he'll be family."

"Oh, good," she proclaimed. "Thank you, daddy."

She gathered toast, bangers, scrambled eggs, bacon rashers, and cheese and
assembled a sandwich of great proportions for Harry's breakfast. She was
ignored as she once again wrapped the food in her napkin with a couple
of pieces of fruit. She had news to tell Harry.

Off to the side, Molly wondered if Ginny's interest in extra food was the
precursor of another growth spurt, or just normal kid stuff. These things
tended to go in waves, she found. Her boys were always 'sneaking' food
to their rooms, despite the abundance in the cold cupboard all the time.

- - -

When Harry finished bathing himself, he drained the water, careful to
use clean to rinse the residue from the sides and bottom of the claw
foot tub. He cleaned the bathroom as much as he could without mop and
bucket, but didn't waste any time. He didn't know how much longer the
family breakfast would last and didn't want to risk discovery.

Quietly, Harry padded down the stairs two doors to the one that said
'Ginny' and closed it behind himself. He was wearing the same boxers
and t-shirt that he wore the previous two nights, but Ginny made a good
argument that he needed the rest. While the potions that Ginny gave
him managed to heal his wounds nicely, he was still sore and tired from
the experience.

He found, quite to his surprise, a large owl on the ledge outside Ginny's
window, waiting patiently as it perched on a brown paper wrapped, string
tied package. If not for Harry's previous use of Errol, he wouldn't have
been so bold as to open the window and let the great bird in.

The bird immediately made use of the window and launched himself into
the air for a very stilted tour of the room. Its wings were so long that
its laps seemed near pivots. It dropped the package on the bed and landed
on the headboard.

"Is...is that for me?"

The owl didn't respond, though Harry hadn't expect him to. He kneeled
on the floor in front of the bed so he could see what it had in store. A
label stuck on the outside identified its addressee as:

> Harry James Potter  
> Ginevra Molly Weasley's Bedroom  
> The Burrow  
> Ottery St. Catchpole  
> England

The first thing to strike him was the exactness that the magic world
could use in addresses without using street numbers. He remembered
Ginny referring to her house as 'the Burrow', although he didn't get
the reference, but what surprised him was Ginny's real first name. He
hadn't heard the name 'Ginevra' before, although it didn't bother him
in the least. Harry decided that Ginny must not want to go by her full
first name and he wouldn't force the issue.

Harry puled the loose ends of the bow and turned the package over. Without
the string to keep the package closed, the paper opened right up
revealing the most peculiar contents. Sitting there was a folded cloth
so fine and transparent that it seemed to be spun clouds. On top of the
fabric, whatever it was, was a letter addressed in coal black ink with
an elegant hand.

Harry removed the letter and opened it, as it was addressed to him.

> Mr. Potter, 
> 
> As you may see, I received your request for assistance
and have decided to help.  
> 
> Enclosed, you will find some articles that
I found upon inspection of your family's vaults here at Gringotts bank. I
hope that you will find the assistance you need in these items. There
were more items that you may find interesting and helpful when making
your way in the world of magic, but I believe that these most suit
your request to be concealed and to stay at your current residence.
> 
> Please feel free to owl me again, as I would be pleased to help.
> 
> Pickrake, 
> 
> Managing Goblin of Gringotts London

Curious, Harry set the letter aside and explored the package
contents. There he found that the fabric Pickrake sent was a square many
feet across, large enough to cover his aunt's couch. When he draped it
over his arm, he was surprised to find his arm gone from the crook of the
elbow to the vee of his thumb. Sticking out in the middle of nowhere were
his four right fingers, but he could not see anything else. It wasn't like
he saw the bloody ends of his fingers, thankfully, they just sat there.

Smiling a conniving smile, Harry spread the fabric out between his
hands and pulled the whole thing over his body. It draped to the floor
and pooled at his feet with the excess. However, Harry could still see
his body from under the drape. He decided that what he needed was a
mirror. He started to walk from the room, careful not to step on his
drape, but was caught short by a hoot.

Harry turned around, suddenly remembering the owl that had waited after
he opened the package.

"Oh, sorry Mr. Owl," Harry apologized.

Harry went to Ginny's desk and penned a thank you note for the nice goblin
who had helped him. He tied the rolled note to the owl's leg, as the owl
must have intended, with its leg stuck straight out in offering. Harry
thought to offer the owl a snack, but all he had left was some fruit and
he didn't think that owls liked fruit. He thought he remembered from
school that they liked little rodents. The owl didn't seem concerned,
as it took flight when Harry seemed to be done and flew out through the
window and off into the sky over the far trees.

Shaking his head to clear it, Harry re-draped the cloth over himself and
cautiously went to the door. Opening it slowly, he saw no movement up
or down the spiral stair. He crept out, completely covered, and made
his way up two doors to the loo, where he could find a mirror.

- - -

Ginny finished with her breakfast and fixing a sandwich for Harry, along
with more fruit. She knew he had some left in her night stand still,
but he seemed to really like what she had brought so far. As soon as it
was politely possible, she excused herself from the breakfast table and
took Harry his breakfast.

"Does she seem to be acting particular to you, Arthur?" Molly asked.

"Well, she is taking extra food," he answered, "which she never has
done before, unless it was biscuits. And she was asking the strangest
questions for a girl her age. But I don't think anything's wrong."

"Well, I won't worry about extra food," Molly agreed, "as long as she
doesn't make a mess of it. She just seemed different."

"Maybe it's that she stopped asking you about her little friend," Percy
offered. "Up until yesterday, a day hadn't gone by that she hadn't asked
you to go get him at least a few times. Now she doesn't even mention it."

"Maybe she heard from him that he's doing alright," Charlie said.

"Maybe," Molly said.

- - -

Ginny entered the room to find it empty, at least as far as Harry's
presence was concerned. On her bed was the remains of some brown paper
wrapping with a couple of boxes on it and a letter set to the side. After
reading the letter, she was excited and anxious to learn what the Goblins
thought would be helpful. Of course, that relied on Harry's parents
having put something in their vault that would have helped Harry stay
concealed in a house without the owners of the house knowing for an
undisclosed time.

Behind her she heard the door open and close. She turned, putting herself
in front of the bed, concealing the detritus of the package. She couldn't
see anyone or anything in her room, however. She swept her eyes over
her whole room and still was alone.

"Ginny!" she jumped as she heard Harry just in front of her. "You've
got to see this! It's so cool!"

"Harry?" Ginny responded. "Where are you?"

"Oh, sorry," his head suddenly appeared in front of her. Like a curtain
being pulled back, Harry's whole body appeared. In his hand was a silvery
cloth that looked delicate and exotic. "The Goblins sent this from my
family's vault."

"What is it?" she asked.

"I don't know," Harry said. "I hoped you knew. Here," he offered,
"take a look and see."

He handed her the cloth and she saw her arm disappear from the elbow
down. She played with the cloth, letting it flow from one hand to
the other back and forth. It almost acted like water when she let it
cascade through her hands. Experimentally, she held it up to the light
and could see through it as if it was hardly there. She flipped it over,
and found the same thing; both sides appeared the same.

"Harry," she intoned slowly. "I think I know what this is. This might
be an invisibility cloak."

"What's that?" Harry asked.

"It's this," she said. "It makes whatever's under it invisible. You could
use it here. It's perfect. Mum always has food in the cold cupboard so
you could get breakfast lunch or dinner any time you're humgry."

"Do you..." Harry started cautiously. "Do you think that would be
alright?"

"Sure it's alright," she told him. "Mum feeds everyone that comes here. Of
course she would want you to eat."

"But," Harry argued. "She doesn't even know I'm here."

"She makes sure everyone that comes to the Burrow eats," Ginny
insisted. "You're no different. Come on. What's in the other things the
Goblins sent?"

Harry went with her to the bed and looked through the two boxes that
remained in the middle of the brown paper wrap. He chose one, a large
flat one, and opened it. Inside was a glass sphere with a beautiful,
sparkling collection of points of light. They were gathered in a disk,
bulging at the centre, with two arms coming off in a spiral. The shape was
beautiful and mesmerizing. Wrapped around it was a silver cage attaching
it to a fine silver chain. Harry and Ginny stared at it in awe.

"Wow, what is it?" Harry asked.

Ginny reached into the box to a scrap of parchment that was placed in
the centre of the chain's loop.

"It has a note." She unfolded the scrap and read aloud, "I believe that
this will be helpful. This pendant, a galaxy, has notice-me-not charms
on it so that the wearer will have some anonymity. According to our
vault records, this pendant has been in the possession of your family
for half a millennium. Take care of it well. "

She removed the silver necklace from the box and opened the clasp. Pulling
his shoulder toward her, she turned Harry around and stilled him. She
brought it around his neck and clasp it, letting it hang down his
chest. As soon as she withdrew her hands, her eyes wandered to a picture
of her two eldest brothers on the wall beside her window.

"Ginny?" Harry asked. "Did it work? What happened?"

Startled, Ginny tried again to look at Harry, but found her eyes sliding
off him to the other side of the room.

"I think it works, Harry," she said. "I keep trying to look at you,
but I end up looking at the other wall."

"Cool!" Harry said. "Is that what magic does?"

"It does a lot of things," Ginny said. "Oh, this is frustrating. I can't
seem to look at you when I try."

"Oh," Harry said, concerned. "What are we going to do?"

"Bill says that a lot of magic is dependent on what you're thinking,"
she told him. "Try thinking that you want me to be able to see you."

Harry scrunched up his face in concentration, not that Ginny could
see. He tried and tried, but to no avail.

"Can you look at me?" Harry asked.

Ginny tried again and found herself looking at a picture of Percy in
his dress robes from a distant cousin's wedding.

"No," she answered. "Just keep trying. It might take a lot to let me see."

Harry pulled Ginny to the bed with him and guided her to sit beside him,
his hand clasp in hers so that they weren't separated by whatever the
charm was doing.

- - -

Some time of concentration later, aided by Ginny's calming touch, they
found success. Ginny could fix her eyes on him easily. He just had to
hope that it would work for the others while it still let Ginny see him.

"This is perfect, Harry," she proclaimed. "Between the invisibility
cloak and this necklace, you won't have any trouble. This pendant is
beautiful. Too bad that no one can see."

"So, what do you think is in the last box?" Harry asked.

Without answering, Ginny simply picked up the small, rectangular box
and flipped the lid. Inside was two rings, one feminine with a ruby,
etched with a lion's head surrounded by wings, set in a gold braided
band. The other was masculine with another ruby, slightly larger with
the etching filled with a fine string of gold, set in golden Celtic
knots making up a heavier band.

This time Harry picked up the folded parchment and read aloud to Ginny,
"These are the Potter family rings for Lord and Lady Potter. You should
wear these when it is appropriate. "

"What do you think that means?" he asked.

"Don't know," she answered. "If you're Lord Potter, you're wife would
be Lady Potter."

"But I don't have a wife," Harry said.

Ginny thought and remembered what she had talked to her father about
at breakfast that morning. She related what she had learned about what
family is.

"...And he said that mum is is family because they're married," she
continued. "They loved each other and wanted to spend the rest of their
lives together so they got married. Now she is his wife."

"And he is her husband," Harry concluded. "So, they're family now,
but they weren't before."

"Yeah," she agreed. "That's what Daddy said."

They were silent for a moment as they let their thoughts settle.

"Oh," Ginny broke the comfortable silence. "Mum always says that you
should write a thank you letter when someone helps you or sends you a
gift, so we need to write Mr. Pickrake a thank you letter."

"I did," Harry agreed. "I've seen my aunt send out thank you notes to
people every Christmas. I wrote a letter to Mr. Pickrake and sent it
with the owl that was waiting."

