---
title: Trust the Science
date: "2005-05-13 15:17:00"
tags:
  - ", "uncategorized
---
<p>As a Native American now heads the park staff for Mount Rushmore,
the presentation moves to include some of the history of broken
treaties that liter our westward expansion.[1] The Indians quoted
here are absolutely right, there is a tendency to whitewash that
pattern of expansion, war, treaty, broken treaty that defines that
era of American History.  There is also however, an even stronger
tendency to whitewash Indian history, to paint it as some green
utopia.  The reality of that life was <em>at least</em> as different
from the pattern of public perception and public presentation as
"Manifest Destiny" was and is.  I wonder if they are also teaching
the tourists and children about the torture and incessant war that
made up the lives of many tribes.  I wonder if they are teaching
about hunting buffalo by inciting them to stampede over cliffs,
or where cliffs lacked, over gullies where they would break their
legs (if cliffs, their necks as well).  Perhaps they used all of
<em>a</em> buffalo, but they killed far more than they needed to get
that one.  I wonder if they are teaching both sides of the wars,
as our soldiers killed entire tribes, and their warriors did the
same to settlers.  For <em>that</em> is the true history of that
time, but its not one I think the tribes would like known, they are
far more happy to simply further the notion that the white man is
always evil.</p>

[1] http://news.findlaw.com/ap/o/632/05-13-2005/64fd001cd70b7c94.html

