[[!meta title="Hogwarts Curriculum"]]
Has Hogwarts always had the same classes we see during Harry's time as a
student?  Was alchemy at one time a more regularly scheduled elective?  Were
there ever classes in the arts or in languages?  For most of its history,
literacy was not universal, did Hogwarts have classes in writing, composition,
reading, or arithmetic, if so, did the need for these classes contribute to the
prejudice against those from non-magical backgrounds?  Or were these subjects
handled by one-on-one tutoring (with the same result, since it probably had
more of an impact on the student's performance in the normal classes)?  The
spells we see all seem to have a Latin basis.  What effect did the Norse
invasions on Great Britain have on the magical populations?[^20210812-1]  Did
it effect the spells that were taught, the classes available?  

These are not idle questions.  We know that Dumbledore was disinclined to
"allow the subject of Divination to continue at all"[^20210928-6] when hearing
[[Trelawney]] actually give a prophecy changed his mind.  We are also told that
specialized subjects (plural), of which Alchemy is the only provided example,
are sometimes provided for NEWT students.[^20210928-7]  Moreover, as you answer
these questions, the overall impossibility of the [[class
schedule|Class_Schedule_Rant]] comes more and more into play. 

[^20210928-7]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling.
    _[Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31538647-hogwarts)_
    p. 36. © 2016 Pottermore Publishing. American Kindle Edition.

[^20210928-6]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. 
    _[Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2.Harry_Potter_and_the_Order_of_the_Phoenix)_
    Kindle Location 12299. © 2005 Pottermore Limited. Kindle Edition. 

[^20210812-1]: see [[History]], the Norse took over substantial parts of
    Scotland and eastern England at different times.
