---
title: Trust the Science
date: 
tags:
untagged
---
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]

It was not until part way through Year 4, when Harry was eight, that an idea
occurred to him that would, along with his skills in mind magic, drastically
reshape his future.  Harry had tried, with no real hope, but rather with stubborn
persistence that it *should* work because it it was right, to report his
relatives' abuse to his newest teacher.[^20210412-2] As he returned to school
the next day he observed that yet another teacher had, disappointingly but not
unexpectedly, forgotten him and his report.  A little older, it occurred to
Harry to wonder if there was something he could do to make himself less
forgettable.  Perhaps he could do more than just see into his teacher's head.
Perhaps he could *make* his teacher remember him.  

This started a new pattern.  Every day Harry would attempt to report his aunt
and uncle, the fact that he lived in a cupboard, the frequent missed meals.  Each
time he would try to use his legilimency (he did not know to call it this, but
it was in fact legilimency) attempting to do *something* to make his teacher
remember the conversation.  He spent months trying to directly force the memory
to be, in fact, remembered, but eventually gave up.  Harry realised that the
only people whose memories he could *see* were Aunt Petunia's, Dudley's, Mrs.
Figg's and the random strange people who seemed to know him and disappear, like
the tiny man in the violet top hat who had bowed to him once.[^20210412-3] If he
could only see memories from a handful of people, only three of whom he saw more
than once, it made sense that he could not make memories … more memorable for
most people.  

Next he tried making the problem seem more memorable other ways.  He tried
making his teacher angry about it, he tried making his teacher worried about
him, he tried telling his teacher about no one remembering and making his
teacher scared.  Each of these *seemed* to work, but each time, as soon as his
teacher was out of sight, the whole thing would be forgotten.  Once he was left
sitting out side the principal's office while the teacher went in to talk.  Five
minutes later, both had walked out and neither remembered asking Harry to wait
for them there.  They got upset when Harry tried to insist that he had just been
talking to them.  Clearly whatever was at work was far more powerful (so Harry's
thoughts went) than anything he could do.  

Still, that did not mean he was powerless.  He had learned quite a bit with
these months of experiments.  Perhaps, if he was going to be unable to get away
from the Dursleys, he could make living with them more endurable?  Perhaps
instead of being *less* forgettable, he should try to become *more* forgettable?
If Dudley forgot about him, then he and his gang would probably pick some other
target.  Harry disliked this solution, he would prefer that *no one* get picked
on, but it would be nice to get a break now and then, to be able to relax and
let his guard down at least some of the time. 

This new approach was *almost* as frustrating as his attempts at being
remembered.  Harry had just enough success that he kept trying, but not enough
that he ever stopped looking for something that would work better.  On the plus
side, Harry had few chores that summer - he successfully manipulated his aunt
such that she preferred him out of the house and out of sight.  On the down
side, he had much less success with groups of people, like Dudley and his gang.
This gave him lots of opportunity for practice, but, with each failure, lots of
bruises, and on two particularly memorable occasions, broken bones to heal with
the healing magic he'd been forced learn.  

His most promising approach so far was to make Dudley feel more lazy, less
inclined to chase Harry.  The problem was that Piers Polkiss, Dudley's best
friend, was twice as mean and half as inclined to be lazy as Dudley was.  If
Piers had not been such a scrawny thing, and, despite his meanness, secretly
scared of Dudley's temper, he probably would have led the gang, and not Dudley.
Distracting one of them was doable.  Keeping both of them distracted required
different emotional manipulations, and so inevitably Harry would loose his
concentration and one of the gang members would find and catch him.  

- - -

If Lily had been paying attention, she would have been appalled at the results
of having taught Harry passive legilimency.  The mind magics are one of the more
dangerous fields of study — easy to abuse, rife with the potential for long term
effects.  Had she still been alive, her body and soul still integrated, she
would have realised that she was putting Harry in a situation where the
temptations would be beyond his ability to resist.  

Harry entered Year 5 having spent most of his life using mind magics to commune
with his mother's spirit and to fight off the attacks from Riddle's spirit;
much of Year 3 in *relatively* harmless passive inspection of the people around
him; then most of Year 4 in active attempts at subverting the minds of the
adults in school; and finally the last two months of school and all summer in
the frequent and routine invasion of and manipulation of the minds of his
classmates.  He had used more of the mind magics than most adult practitioners
do in entire lifetimes.  Even inveterate meddlers like Albus Dumbledore knew to
keep their touch light and their time in someone else's mind short.  A dark lord
like Riddle had no problems ransacking someone's mind for information, but the
very willingness to brutally violate the person meant that they rarely spent
more than more than a few minutes actually in the other person's head.  More
responsible people like those few healers who knew something about helping the
victims of such attacks might spend hours on a single patient, but rarely worked
with more than one or two such patients in a year. Harry was constantly fumbling
and experimenting each day every day on a dozen classmates.  He spent hours to
achieve results that a trained legilimens might do in seconds.  With practice
Harry got better, faster, more adept, but in a real, though unseen, sense it was
already too late. 

The nephilim are an unstable hybrid, and the abuse of their powers, no matter
that Harry had no ill intent, comes at the cost of destabilising the very nature
of their being.  In times past, this destabilisation has taken many forms.
Sometimes it has mutated the abusers physically, leading to the existence of
centaurs and dwarfs.  Other times changes that the abusers hoped to be temporary
were made into permanent hereditary changes, such as what happened with the
merfolk.[^211219-2]  Harry had already experienced one subtle change in the way
his mind and magic worked, now he would experience another.  Like the last,
because Harry's use of this destabilising magic was not malicious, the
exaggerated versions of things Harry was using the magic for became locked into
place. 

In the first change, Harry's desire to connect to someone the way he connected
to his mum's soul became realised as his magic started actively seeking and
connecting him in profound ways.  So far this had resulted in only fleeting (and
unwelcome) connections to Riddle.  In this second change, it was Harry's use of
legilimency to hide that finally crossed the threshold and triggered change.
Harry had spent the last two months enhancing the area magic that caused people
to forget him.  Now he emitted a field that duplicated that magic.  Unlike the
one he had lived under for the last eight years, this one did not have the built
in exceptions that allowed the Dursleys or Mrs. Figg to remember him.  More,
unlike that field that simply made him forgettable, this made him hard to see at
all.[^20210918-1]

As Year 5 began, these changes were only starting to take hold, to find
form, and to shape the kind of person that Harry would be.  The field that Harry
was emitting was not yet as strong as it could be.  Someone who knew he was
there could see past it. But then, Harry was only nine years old, and a nephil's
magic grows profoundly as he (or she) approaches his eleventh birthday. 

[^211219-2]: See the short synopsys about [[the Flood|backstory/The_Flood]] and
    about [[Dwarfs/backstory/The_Dwarfs]].

[^20210918-1]: Harry has not seen what happens to people near the Leaky
    Cauldron.  If an observer saw what happened to non-magical people there, and
    what happened to people trying to look at Harry, the similarities would be
    profound.  The primary difference is that Harry's magic affects *everyone*. 

[^20210412-2]: I think this is in character for Harry.  In the first book, Harry
    cannot actually expect fair treatment from his uncle.  It has to be pure
    stubborn instance in demanding just treatment that causes him to demand his
    letter the way he does.  

[^20210412-3]: Mrs. J. K. Rowling. _Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone_
    p. 30. Pottermore Limited. American Kindle Edition. 

[^20210412-4]: This is not intended as Lily Potter bashing.  Lily was a good
    parent, but Harry was too young to remember her when she was alive.  His
    experience of her is of a highly distracted dis-embodied soul who is so
    caught up in spiritual warfare that she barely has time for him.  It is not
    that dis-embodied Lily loves Harry any less, it is that *time* is a function
    of the material world that Lily is disconnected from by virtue of being 1)
    dead and 2) actively trying to preserve her son's autonomy despite both her
    own and Riddle's foreign presence.  
