---
title: Trust the Science
date: 
tags:
untagged
---
[[!meta author="Luke Schierer"]]

The summer after Year 1 of Primary School, when Harry turned 6, was particularly
hard for Harry.  Dudley's school friends were starting to come over
unsupervised, and Dudley invented a game he called "Harry Hunting."  Harry
learned to run quickly, and to maintain what an adult would have called
situational awareness.  Harry did not know that phrase, he just knew that if he
paid attention to the feel of the various minds around him, he got hurt less. To
the Dursleys, it seemed like Harry had eyes in the back of his head.  He was
avoiding Dudley and his friends before he should have known they were there.
This further proof of his "freaky" abilities fanned the flames of Petunia's
jealousy even as it enraged Vernon's bigotry.  

Lily was quickly realising that teaching Harry legilimency might not have been
the best idea.  While he had been in school, it had been one thing.  The
teachers mostly meant well, and you could feel the confusion the spells on Harry
caused in their emotions.  Similarly, Harry was bright enough to realise, with
only a little prompting, how much his classmates feared Dudley and his nascent
gang of bullies.  During the summer however, Harry was exposed to a very
different set of people.  Petunia occasionally hosted some of the other local
ladies for tea, and Harry became all too aware of the undercurrent of
satisfaction and even happiness that they felt beneath the false expressions of
sympathy and dismay as they gossiped about the latest neighbourhood scandals.
Harry correctly realised that these adults believed the worst of him not because
of the confusion caused by any spell, but because it pleased them to believe the
worst of anyone; their children, only a few of whom were in his class, were no
better.  Lily had hoped to show Harry that the Dursleys were the exception.  He
was instead learning that those with both the power and willingness to help him
were few and far between.  

That summer Vernon had made plans to take the family on a trip, leaving Harry
with Mrs. Figg.  Harry did not much care for Mrs. Figg's house, it smelled of
cats, and she made him sit and look at endless picture albums of cats she had
raised.  He had not however, really thought much either way about *her.*  She
fed him more than the Dursleys did, and he had a real bed, so if pressed, his
opinion would have probably been vaguely positive.  Less than a day after being
dropped off with her however, Harry noticed that Mrs. Figg was different from
most of the adults he met.  With most adults, he had a fairly strong grasp on
what they were *feeling,* but that was about it.  With Mrs. Figg, Harry was
getting flashes of memories as well.  He had a strong sense of her hiding
something whenever she was talking to him, even when it was just about her cats.
What could she possibly have to hide about her catsâ€½ As always Harry never said
much beyond "Yes Ma'am" or "No Ma'am;" he certainly never asked questions.  Why
would she lie to him? 

And her memories, for one thing, why could he see them at all?[^210412-1] If
he could have known, the answer was Mrs. Figg was *slightly* more magical than
either his aunt or cousin, making her mind more accessible to mental magic.  On
top of that, he was essentially *bored*, and thus exploring her mind much more
thoroughly than he ever had his aunt's or cousin's.  Habituated to the feel of
their minds, burdened by the lack of food and the constant chores, he had simply
never noticed that Petunia or Dudley's memories *were* accessible.  What he saw
in Mrs. Figg's memories drove the question of *why* he saw those memories out of
his mind.  There were such strange things in them.  People dressed in odd
clothing, waving wooden sticks.  He would have thought he was watching scenes
from movie - not that he had ever seen a whole movie, but occasionally he saw
bits and pieces of whatever Dudley was watching.  Most disturbing of all, some
of the memories seemed to be about conversations she had had with these strange
people *about him.*  

She knew.  *Knew and remembered* that he was too small, that he was almost
always seen doing chores and never seen playing, that he sometimes had
suspicious bruises.[^211219-1]  She knew, and yet she had done nothing.  Harry
hated her.  He was used to the fact that his aunt and uncle disliked him, it was
so old a pain that he almost forgot it hurt sometimes.  This, however, was new,
and it drove home how alone he was in a way he had never felt before.  Sure, he
could still see the two souls battling endlessly within him, the good soul he
was learning had been his mum's, and the evil soul that still regularly caused
his nightmares.  They were, however, so locked in their seemingly unending
struggle that his mum rarely had time to do more than teach him the little bits
of magic he used to spy on the minds around him and to heal himself.  

Harry had not much liked sitting listening to stories about cats, but when Mrs.
Figg fed him regularly, he thought it meant she cared *something* for him.  He
now knew that minding him was just a job, and one she resented at that.  She was
nearly as jealous of his ability to do magic as his aunt, and making sure he had
to sit there bored stiff was her way of lashing out.  Meanwhile she told stories
to the strange old man with the beard (Dumbledore her memories told him) about
how well the plans to keep him humble were going, and other stories, pure
fiction, to another man with long hair like a girl's and a mouth that showed too
many teeth[^210208-3] to make some extra money.  People were going to believe
all kinds of things about him because she simply did not care.  

Fortunately none of this internal turmoil was visible on Harry's face.  The
dissociated state his mum had induced in his infancy as a byproduct of her
efforts to protect him from the soul shard's influence let him keep his face
blank while he raged about in a room created within his mind for the purpose.
Harry was only six.  The fact that it occurred to him to keep his display of
temper internalised was remarkable.  The fact that it did not occur to him to do
anything actually productive should hardly be surprising.  

If he had thought about what he had seen in those memories for even a moment
more, then even as sheltered from fiction as he was he might have connected the
wooden sticks with stories of wands.  Legilimency might be stronger, more easily
focused with a wand, but does not require it, and the self-healing he was
learning was wandless as well.  Lily was not going to bother teaching him about
wands when she knew full well there was no way to get him one.  We will not
know, however, what might have come if Harry had made that connection, for Harry
quickly lost interest in memories - it hurt too much.  Thus, by the time his
relatives returned from their trip, it never occurred to him to re-explore their
minds to see if he could see their memories.  Lily never noticed.  Time meant
little to either deceased soul or to soul shard. If she had noticed, she would
have been torn between warning Harry away from using legilimency so actively,
dismay over now knowing the identity of his other adversary, and disbelief that
such a respected person could have betrayed all he claimed to stand for so
fundamentally. 

[^211219-1]: Here I've established a key point.  Nephilim, even squibs, remember
    Harry, everyone else forgets him.  Vernon not an exception here.  He *does*
    in fact frequently forget about Harry, it is just that he is (when at home)
    much more continuously reminded of Harry's existence.  This has happened to
    the point that complaining about the half remembered boy (whose name he
    actually *does* have trouble remembering due to the spell) is now habitual.

[^210208-3]: The idea for the author of the Harry Potter stories that Ginny
    grows up reading comes from a fanfiction I read, but I can't remember which
    right now. I do not want to give just who it is away here though if you can't
    figure it out from the fairly obvious reference. 

[^210412-1]: See my notes on [[relative power levels|appendix_b]].
