Dr. Mike Adams, in today's column,[^201208281] writes about several cases where someone innocent of any crime reminds a rape victim of the horrible crime committed against her.  I believe his first example is a real life one.  His other is not meant to be.  He does this trying ti illustrate how stupid it is to blame a child for being the result of rape.  I doubt anyone not already convinced will accept his writing sufficiently to change their mind.  The real point of his article though, is in the last two paragraphs.  He points out that former governor Romney supports abortion of children in cases of rape.  He concludes that Mr. Romney experiences "deep moral confusion" and practices "chronic moral capitulation."

I agree with Dr. Adams, I believe that Mr. Romney's commitment to the pro-life cause is one that he will routinely compromise on - at best.  I believe that his commitment to other important issues, like getting rid of Obamacare, reducing the size and power of the federal government, and generally returning to us the freedoms we were promised by the founding fathers, are equally insincere.  This leaves me unsure what I should do this November.  Do I vote for the man who is clearly less evil, or should I take one of the third parties who will doubtlessly run as a true option for my vote? If one of the third parties really is a legitimate option to vote for, then I believe that I must vote for some one whose commitment to life and other moral issues is less in doubt. 

Why would a candidate that we can trust feel the need to grab a choke hold on the platform of the Republican Party?[^201208291]  I do not always agree with the Freedom Works team.  I view them at least as skeptically as I view pretty much any other politician, and so their report must be taken with a grain of salt.  Still, no good can come of changing rules to make it harder to hear more voices in the platform development process.  I am particularly disappointed to hear that Speaker Boehner cooperated with this.  I am not sure why I am disappointed, to become speaker, he clearly is and must be in with those that Freedom Works calls "RNC insiders," and yet, I am, in fact, disappointed.

[^201208281]: Dr. Mike Adams.  "Romney and the Rapist" <Townhall.com> Last viewed 2012-08-28. <http://townhall.com/columnists/mikeadams/2012/08/28/romney_and_the_rapist/page/full/>

[^201208291]: Mr. Dean Clancy.  "Romney's "RNC Power Grab": What Really Happened" Freedom Works. Last viewed 2012-08-29.  <http://www.freedomworks.org/blog/dean-clancy/romneys-rnc-power-grab-what-happened>

[[!tag morality-religion]]
[[!tag politics-law]]
[[!meta title="Can I vote for Romney"]]

