Dr. Mike Adams, in today's column,[^1] writes about several cases where someone innocent of any crime reminds a rape victim of the horrible crime committed against her.  I believe his first example is a real life one.  His other is not meant to be.  He does this trying ti illustrate how stupid it is to blame a child for being the result of rape.  I doubt anyone not already convinced will accept his writing sufficiently to change their mind.  The real point of his article though, is in the last two paragraphs.  He points out that former governor Romney supports abortion of children in cases of rape.  He concludes that Mr. Romney experiences "deep moral confusion" and practices "chronic moral capitulation."

I agree with Dr. Adams, I believe that Mr. Romney's commitment to the pro-life cause is one that he will routinely compromise on - at best.  I believe that his commitment to other important issues, like getting rid of Obamacare, reducing the size and power of the federal government, and generally returning to us the freedoms we were promised by the founding fathers, are equally insincere.  This leaves me unsure what I should do this November.  Do I vote for the man who is clearly less evil, or should I take one of the third parties who will doubtlessly run as a true option for my vote? If one of the third parties really is a legitimate option to vote for, then I believe that I must vote for some one whose commitment to life and other moral issues is less in doubt. 

[^1]: Dr. Mike Adams.  "Romney and the Rapist" <Townhall.com> Last viewed 2012-08-28. <http://townhall.com/columnists/mikeadams/2012/08/28/romney_and_the_rapist/page/full/>

[[!tag morality-religion]]
[[!tag politics-law]]

